Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 IndianOil Business  and  Beyond  From the canvas  of opportunities in  the world of Energy,  IndianOil stands as a  beacon of commitment  towards energy  independence and  sustainable growth.
IndianOil is not just an  energy Company; it is a  force for positive change,  dedicated to fuelling the  growth trajectory of an  ascendant India!
As ‘The Energy of India’  the Company’s  destiny has been intrinsically linked to  the nation’s aspirations.
Aligning with  India’s blueprint, the Company is on a  transformative journey, transitioning  towards the fuels of the future and  emerging as a trailblazer for a greener ,  prosperous India.
IndianOil’s Integrated Annual Report  for 2023-24, themed “Positive Energy -  Business & Beyond,”reflects its unwavering  dedication to the Nation-First principle,  adopted as a core value in 2023.
The cover design of the Integrated Annual  Report, with a gradient shift from blue  to green, symbolises the pledge for  environmental stewardship.
‘Positive Energy’ permeates in every  direction, in Business and Beyond,  extensively fuelling social outreach  programmes, touching the lives of  over a billion Indians.
Nurturing India’s  sporting talent, empowering communities,  bolstering India’s healthcare and preserving  the nation’s rich heritage, remain the  Company’s key commitments.
Let us together explore the essence of  ‘Positive Energy’ in our Integrated Annual  Report for 2023-24,  as we pave the way  for a sustainable future, benefitting all  the stakeholders.
Business and Beyond Delivery of Indane LPG in remote villages of Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Integrated and Sustainable Thinking  At IndianOil, we believe that meaningful value  creation is a strategic and integrated process.
By understanding the interconnectedness of our  resources, we make informed strategic choices  that drive sustainable growth.
This holistic  approach ensures we deliver consistent value to our  stakeholders over the short, medium, and long term.
Our contribution to UNSDGs Our activities also contribute to the United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) covering  a range of multi-stakeholder goals that we  aspire to achieve.
Forward-looking Statements We have exercised utmost care in the preparation  of this report.
It might include forecasts  and/or information relating to forecasts.
Facts, expectations, and past data are typically  the basis of forecasts.
As with all forward-looking  statements, the actual result may deviate from the  forecast.
As a result, we can provide no assurance  on the correctness, completeness, and up-to-date  nature of the information for our forward-looking  statements, as well as for those declared as taken  from third parties.
Therefore, appropriate discretion  on the part of readers is advised.
We undertake no  obligation to publicly update any forward-looking  statements, whether as a result of new information,  future events, or otherwise.
Board of Directors 096 List of Senior Executives 097 Main Offices & Major Units 100 Auditors, Bankers, RTA etc.
101 Group Companies 102 Performance at a Glance 104 Awards & Accolades 090 Financial Capital 054 Manufactured Capital 058 Intellectual Capital 066 Social and Relationship Capital 072 Human Capital 078 Natural Capital 082 Performance Highlights 004 Introducing IndianOil 006 Diverse Portfolio 008 Chairman’s Message 010 Governance of Risks 032 Business Model 036 Materiality Assessment 038 Stakeholder Engagement 040 Governance 044 Energised Leadership Team 046 Sustainable Development Goals 052 Directors’ Report 108 Annexure I - SC/ST/OBC Report 126 Annexure II - CSR Report 128 Annexure III - Secretarial  Audit Report 138 Annexure IV - Report on Energy   Conservation, Technology  Absorption and Foreign  Exchange Earning 142 Report on Corporate Governance 150 Management’s  Discussion & Analysis 172 Corporate Overview Description of Capitals Corporate Information Statutory Reports It provides detailed information about IndianOil’s progress  and highlights for the year ended March 31, 2024.
This  is the primary report to our stakeholders in which we  aim to provide a balanced and accurate reflection of our  value creation methodology, risks and opportunities,  materiality assessment, stakeholder engagement and our  performance scorecard through the deployment of each  capital as well as our future roadmap.
for the Financial Year 2023-24 www.iocl.com or Scan QR code For more  information visit This is IndianOil’s Reporting Framework  The report follows the International Integrated  Reporting Council (IIRC) framework, which allows  us to tell our members and other stakeholders how  we create value for them.
A consolidated assessment  of the six capitals provides both our strategy as  well as the internal materiality process we have  used to determine the content and structure of this  report.
The financial and statutory data presented in  this report are in line with the requirements of the  Companies Act, 2013 and rules notified thereunder ,  the Indian Accounting Standards, the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, and  the Secretarial Standards.
Our 6 Capitals  • Manufactured Capital  • Intellectual Capital  • Financial Capital  • Human Capital  • Social & Relationship Capital  • Natural Capital IndianOil‘s Brand Mascot -  Single-Horned Indian Rhino Standalone Independent Auditors’ Report 188 Balance Sheet 206 Statement of Profit & Loss 208 Cash Flows Statement 210 Statement of Changes in Equity 212 Notes to Financial Statements 214 Income & Expenditure  Account-Township, etc.
310 Consolidated Independent Auditors’ Report 311 Balance Sheet 320 Statement of Profit & Loss 322 Cash Flows Statement 324 Statement of Changes in Equity 326 Notes to Financial Statements 328 Comments of Comptroller and  Auditor General of India 428 Notice 431 Financial Statements IOCians at the century old ‘Still’ used for oil refining at Digboi Refinery, Assam Reporting Period  This integrated report primarily covers the 12-month  period from April 01, 2023 to March 31, 2024.
However ,  certain sections of this report represent facts and  figures of the previous years as well.
The details  and information in the Integrated Report pertain to  Indian Oil Corporation Limited on  standalone basis,  unless otherwise specified.
Both the financial and  non-financial aspects are in accordance with the  applicable laws, regulations and standards of the  Republic of India.
Operational Highlights 97.551 MMT Sales volume of products 19,500+ Km Pipeline network 73.308 MMT Refining throughput ~J 2.5 Lakh Crore Investments in capex planned  for Net-Zero targets World’s First 3G Ethanol plant commissioned at  Panipat in 2023-24 One Trillion Dollar Company by 2047 94th Rank In the Fortune Global 500 list for 2023 70.25 to 87.9  MMTPA Ongoing Refinery Expansions Financial Highlights Social HighlightsEnvironmental  Highlights Net-Zero Operational emissions by 2046 J 8,66,345 Crore Revenue from Operations J 74,182 Crore EBITDA J 39,619 Crore PAT 20.17 % ROCE J 457.71 Crore CSR Expenditure 117.66 Lakh Beneficiaries of CSR initiatives ~600 nos.
CSR projects undertaken J 409.5 Crore Investment in renewable   energy and greening efforts  19.62 Trillion BTU Energy consumed Indane LPG Bottling Plant in Leh IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 004 005 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond Introducing IndianOil Propelled by Positive Energy IndianOil is India’s premier energy major , committed to playing a catalytic role in  securing India’s energy future.
Acknowledging ‘Nation-First’ as the DNA of our  core values, alongside Care, Innovation, Passion and Trust, IndianOil continues  its strides in bolstering India’s energy security, advancing the country’s self- reliance and accomplishing historic firsts in specialised fuels, demonstrating  our technological prowess.
Fuelled by a rich legacy dating back to 1959, IndianOil has built a diversified portfolio, encompassing the entire hydrocarbon value  chain.
With cutting-edge R&D expertise, extensive distribution network and robust corporate citizenship initiatives, IndianOil continues  to fuel India’s socio-economic growth story, while creating value for all stakeholders.
People Ethics Environment Technology Innovation Customers Vision Leading with   passion to   excel Setting high  standards for  ethics and values Caring for the  environment and   community Harnessing   frontier   technology Pioneering the  spirit of creativity   and research Fostering   relationships   for a lifetime A Globally Admired Company The Energy of India IndianOil Values The North Star Guiding Our Thoughts and Actions  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 006 007  Diverse Portfolio To fortify our leadership position in India’s energy landscape, we are currently  overseeing various ongoing projects.
With a combined capital investment of  about H 2.5 Lakh Crore across these projects, we aim to further strengthen our  core business.
Refining, Pipelines and Marketing Natural Gas As one of India's leading downstream oil and gas  Companies, we continue to broaden our range of  offerings and introduce innovative energy solutions.
Our Pipelines Division reached a major milestone  in 2023-24, with the completion of the largest-ever  pipeline expansion, showcasing our dedication  to strengthening our infrastructure and extending  our coverage.
Concurrently, we are enhancing our  petroleum marketing and distribution network to fortify  our leadership and gain market share.
Foraying into the natural gas domain since 2004, we  have emerged as a major player , investing in LNG  sourcing, import terminals, cross-country pipelines and  City Gas Distribution (CGD) networks.
With a sharper  focus on reliability and sustainability, we are committed  to expanding our reach and ensuring a steady supply  of clean energy nationwide.
Petrochemicals Alternative energy and other businesses Exploration and Production Driven by our ambition to lead the petrochemical  market in India,  we are intensifying our downstream  operations and expanding globally.
With significant  investments planned, we aim to leverage existing  refinery streams for petrochemical production,  positioning ourselves among Southeast Asia’s   front- runner  in the long run.
Committed to India’s Net-Zero aspirations, we are  vigorously exploring opportunities in various segments   like renewable energy, waste-to-energy, bioenergy,  sustainable aviation fuel, green hydrogen and more.
We are strengthening our presence in Exploration and  Production (E&P) through our strategic investments,  leading to significant production growth in 2023-24.
Fuelled by Positive Energy Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 008 009  message Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil Our commitment to  sustainable development has  been recognised globally with  IndianOil emerging as the top  Indian oil and gas corporate  in the Bloomberg NEF global  Energy Transition Score and  topping the tables in the S&P  Dow Jones Sustainability  Indices in oil and gas sector .
The year 2023-24 for IndianOil, was defined by  extraordinary achievements driven by our unwavering  dedication to progress and sustainability.
My  appreciation for our valued stakeholders, especially our  customers, shareholders and the IndianOil family, for  their unwavering support in this voyage of excellence.
We remain committed to upholding the highest  standards of corporate governance, transparency,  and accountability, ensuring that the interests of our  stakeholders are safeguarded at every step.
Dear Shareholders, J 8,66,345 Crore J 39,619 Crore Revenue Net profit India’s post-independence journey, from  a fledgling nation to an emerging global  superpower , is indeed an awe-inspiring saga  of the courage to dream and the resilience  to surmount every challenge.
India’s first  Prime Minister , Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru  had stated in 1956, “Oil, everyone knows,  is of vast importance in the world today...”.
It underscored oil’s pivotal role in securing  our nation’s future.
Born from this vision of  progress, sovereignty, and self-sufficiency,  your Company took roots, and today  stands at the forefront of India’s economic  transformation.
Stemming from this legacy of nation  building, the story of your Company is  much more than a business narrative.
In  the last six eventful and exciting decades,  your Company has grown exponentially to  become one of India’s largest customer- facing companies, featuring consistently  among the top global entities in the ‘Fortune  500’ ranking.
Our Five Lakh strong extended  family of energy soldiers continue to fuel  a billion dreams across the vast expanse  of India, overcoming challenges to secure  India’s energy future.
We have been in step  with the nation’s mandate, propelling key  initiatives such as, ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’,  ‘Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana’ (PMUY) ,  ‘Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable  Transportation’ (SATAT), and many more.
Let me share some extraordinary numbers  that best describe our scale, reach, and  impact.
Every day, we process over 1.6  Million barrels of crude oil and delight over  three crore Indians through an expansive  network of 61,000+ customer touchpoints,  including 37,500 plus fuel stations.
Every  day, we deliver more than 26 Lakh LPG  cylinders, even to the remotest corners of  India.
Every day, we fuel over 2,300 flights,  with more than half of the flights in Indian  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 010 011  LPG Delivery on boats in Edathua village, Alappuzha district, Kerala An IndianOil Retail Outlet operated in association with Central Jail, Jaipur Chairman with women workforce at Indane Bottling Plant, Leh Chairman briefing the Prime Minister at Barauni Refinery skies being refuelled by us.
For us, every day  is an opportunity to power the progress and  possibilities for our nation, demonstrating  our Core Values of Nation-First, Care,  Innovation, Passion and Trust.
As India grows and prospers, it’s energy  outlook reflects this growth story.
As  ‘The Energy of India ’, your Company is  firmly geared up to meet India’s evolving  energy needs.
As one of the largest energy  consumers globally, the country’s oil  demand is projected to rise from 5.4 Million  barrels per day (bpd) in 2023 to 9.3 Million  bpd by 2040.
Fulfilling this rising demand  will require augmenting the country’s  refining capacity progressively, from the  current 256.8 Million Metric Tonnes Per  Annum (MMTPA) to 450 MMTPA.
In addition,  the country is set to add 50 GW of renewable  energy capacity annually, aiming to achieve  500 Gigawatt (GW) of installed renewable  capacity by 2030.
As the energy needs of  an ascendant India rapidly grows, your  Company is fully prepared to ramp up both  conventional and non-conventional energy  options to cater to this increasing demand.
Stellar Performance: Creating  Shared Value Your Company has consistently been at  the forefront of India’s growth, continually  fuelling the nation’s progress.
Our  relentless pursuit of excellence, guided by  our core values, has led to yet another year  of outstanding achievements.
Building Shareholder Trust and  Value As your Company navigates through  the complexities of the dynamic energy  landscape, we remain firmly focussed  on creating long-term value for the  shareholders, customers, employees, and  the communities we serve.
It is gratifying  that  the share prices of your Company  soared to their highest in six years, with  the value tripling over the last three years,  during 2023-24.
Our market capitalisation  touched an all-time high of J 2.72 Lakh  Crore, reflecting the abiding trust and  confidence of our shareholders.
Strengthening the Brand Value Our quest for excellence has earned us  applause and recognition on prestigious  platforms.
Your Company rose 48 rungs  to take  the 94th spot in the Fortune Global  500 listing.
We were the sole Indian Public  Sector Enterprise in the global top 100 and  have  appeared on this list for 28 years in a  row.
Additionaly, your Company topped the  ‘BW Top 500’ list for the third consecutive  year and lead the oil and gas companies in  the ‘Most Respected Companies’ ranking   by Business World.
I am also delighted to share that your  Company clinched the third spot for brand  strength in the oil and gas sector in the  ‘Brand Finance’ listing, taking a leap from  ninth rank.
These accolades underscore our  drive for sustained excellence and innovation  in the  industry.
Highlighting our commitment  to meeting and exceeding regulatory and  performance standards, we have secured  ‘excellent’ ratings for the MoU parameters  of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas  (MoP&NG), for the past two  years.
Beyond these accolades earned in our  core business, our determined efforts to  strengthen Environmental, Social, and  Governance (ESG) commitments, have  fetched us global recognitions.
Your  Company emerged as the top Indian  corporate in the Bloomberg NEF Global  Energy Transition Score and topped the S&P  Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in the oil  and gas sector , underscoring the success  of our initiatives for a low-carbon future.
In 2023-24, demonstrating remarkable  resilience, your Company attained  record-breaking financial and operational  milestones.
Revenue from operations stood  at H 8,66,345 Crore, with a net profit of   H 39,619 Crore, a nearly five-fold increase  from the previous year , making it the  highest-ever profit in the Company’s  history.
Aligned with these milestones, our  operational performance touched historical  high, with the highest-ever sales volume of  97.551 Million Tonnes of products, a refining  throughput of 73.308 Million Tonnes, and  the pipelines throughput of 98.626 Million  Tonnes.
These accomplishments have added a  sheen to your Company’s brand and are  special as they have been achieved in  the face of adversities and uncertainties,  including the turbulent geopolitical  scenario and natural disasters closer to  home.
I commend the tireless dedication  of IOCians who walked the extra mile and  demonstrated our core values of ‘Care’,  ‘Innovation’, ‘Passion’, ‘Trust, and above  all, ‘Nation-First’ at crucial times.
Braving  cyclones like Michaung, Remal, Biparjoy  in several States; the floods and other  calamities, our teams worked to keep the  fuel stations well-stocked, and ensured  that every  hearth and home remained lit,  spreading warmth and kindling hope during  tough times.
Delivering on our long-term strategy,  rewarding our shareholders remains a  priority for your Company.
To this effect,  your Company is proposing to distribute  42% Profit After Tax (H  16,526 Crore) as  dividend for the financial year 2023-24,  by recommending H  9,640 Crore as final  dividend over and above the interim dividend  of H 6,886 Crore distributed during the year .
Significantly, this was accomplished while  keeping a debt-equity ratio of 0.66, the  lowest in the past five years.
Thus, while we  are powering progress, we remain aligned  to generating value for shareholders.
Prime Minister being apprised about IndianOil’s innovative  endeavours by Chairman Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 012 013  MoU signing of IndianOil with Nepal Oil Corporation IndianOil LNG Terminal at Ennore, Tamil Nadu Marching towards a Future Perfect  Vision   While we celebrate the laurels, each action  and endeavour has been a step towards our  vision for tomorrow.
Our resolve to become  an operational Net-Zero Company by 2046  is one such commitment that is aligned with  India’s goal to achieve Net-Zero by 2070.
This ambition reflects our aim to set new  benchmarks in environmental stewardship.
Investing in Nation Building In 2023-24, your Company achieved a  cumulative capital expenditure (CAPEX)  of J 42,236 Crore, surpassing the budgeted  target of J 30,395 Crore by over 139%.
This  remarkable performance demonstrates  our drive for growth and solidifies our  leadership among PSUs under the Ministry  of Petroleum & Natural Gas.
Looking ahead to 2024-25, we are set to  make significant capital investments in both  brownfield and greenfield expansions, to  ensure uninterrupted energy.
Petrochemical  integration will also be a key focus area,  that will greatly enrich our value chain.
Beyond expanding our infrastructure, our  investment strategy is centred on fostering  innovation and advancing sustainability.
This  Setting New Benchmarks Refineries: Redefining Excellence Your Company’s commitment to operational  excellence is mirrored in the remarkable  milestones achieved by our refineries.
In  2023-24, we operated at the highest-ever  capacity utilisation of 104.5% while also  sustaining our Specific Energy Consumption  (MBN) at 68.7.
This  stands as a testament to  our continuous efforts to enhance efficiency.
IndianOil aspires to be a One Trillion Dollar giant by 2047 comprehensive approach aligns with our  broader vision of meeting India’s growing  energy demands, contributing significantly  to India’s economic growth and reinforcing  our role as a pillar of nation building.
Our Gross Refining Margin (GRM) for 2023- 24 was US$12.05 per barrel, reflecting the  challenging global environment compared  to US$19.52 per barrel in the previous year .
Despite these challenges, we achieved the  highest annual production of Petrol (MS)  at 12,555 TMT, an 8.5% increase from the  previous best of 11,576 TMT in 2022-23.
This exemplifies our ability to maintain  high production levels and operational  efficiency amidst geopolitical uncertainties.
Additionally, we expanded our crude basket-  from 247 to 253 grades, enhancing our  operational flexibility and resilience.
We successfully commissioned several  key projects to bolster our capabilities,  including RLNG infrastructure at Barauni  and Paradip Refineries, and the expansion  Pipelines: Fuelling Energy Highways Your Company’s energy highways achieved  significant milestones in 2023-24.
Liquid  pipeline throughput surpassed previous  records, reaching over 95.8 MMT, while  product pipelines too achieved a record  throughput of 43.99 MMT.
Our pipelines  expanded by approximately 2,180  kilometers, bringing the total length close  to 20,000 kilometers (km).
Notably, the  Hathidah-Muzaffarpur-Motihari section of  the Paradip-Haldia-Barauni-Motihari LPG  Pipeline was commissioned, making it the  country’s longest LPG pipeline at 1,707 km.
A major step forward in transporting  clean fuel is all set to be realised with the  construction of the world’s longest LPG  pipeline, the approx.
2,800 km Kandla- Gorakhpur LPG pipeline project that shall  be commissioned in phases during 2024-25.
This extensive network will connect over   20 LPG bottling plants, including 13 from  other Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs).
Transcending boundaries, we are expanding  our energy reach with a focus on the  ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy.
In Nepal, our  presence has been strengthened with the  successful commissioning of the pipeline  to the Amlekhgunj terminal.
Following  this in May 2023, India and Nepal signed a  Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to  facilitate a 50 km Siliguri–Jhapa Pipeline.
Domestically, our standalone city gas  distribution network continues to expand.
Currently, we operate in 26 Geographical  Areas (GAs) with a steel pipeline network  of over 15,000 inch-kilometers and have  established 277 CNG stations, supporting  gas sales of 280 Tonnes per day.
These  efforts are part of our broader strategy to  provide clean and efficient energy solutions  across urban centres, aligning with our  promise for a carbon neutral future.
To  ensure optimised CNG dispensing, accurate  gas measurement, and enhanced safety  protocols, we recently commissioned  the Central City Gas Distribution (CGD)  monitoring centre.
Our ongoing initiatives  are pivotal to supporting India’s vision of  a sustainable, technology-driven energy  landscape.
Our teams continue to innovate and unlock  new sustainable solutions, demonstrating  our leadership in steering India’s energy  transition and enhancing the nation’s  energy security.
To this end, your Company  is embarking on an aspirational journey to  become a ‘One Trillion Dollar Giant by 2047’.
Our goal to attain a revenue of One Trillion  Dollar is set against the backdrop of India’s  vision to transform into an economy of over  US$ 30 Trillion by 2047.
With India’s economy on the rise, the  energy needs of the country are growing   exponentially.
As ‘ The Energy of India ’,  we have been stepping up the pace and   expanding our capabilities.
We aim to  become the nation’s lead energiser , fulfilling  12.5% (1/8 th) of India’s energy needs by  2050.
This strategic goal is part of our  comprehensive blueprint for growth, which  includes expanding our energy portfolio,  leveraging advanced technologies, and  fostering partnerships.
of Guwahati Refinery from 1.0 to 1.2 MMTPA.
Additionally, we also commissioned the  Catalytic Dewaxing Unit – II at Haldia, which  will produce Group II and III lubes, and the  first indigenous Catalyst Manufacturing  Unit of any Indian PSU at the Panipat  Naphtha Cracker (PNC) Unit, dedicated  to manufacturing catalysts and catalyst  additives to meet our captive requirements.
Both projects offer import substitution and  significantly support the ‘ Make in India ’  initiative.
Looking ahead, we are set to significantly  increase our refining capacity.
The  expansions of Barauni (6 to 9 MMTPA),  Panipat (15 to 25 MMTPA) and Gujarat  Refineries (13.7 to 18 MMTPA) are  scheduled for completion by 2025-26.
These  expansions are poised to substantially boost  our crude processing capacity, reinforcing  our leadership in the refining sector .
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 014 015  IndianOil Swagat fuel station at MM Nagar, Chennai Heritage Retail Outlet at Pendra, Chhattisgarh Product Application and Development Centre at Paradip Petrochemical: Expanding Footprints The growth of our petrochemical business  remains a critical component of IndianOil’s  blueprint, driven by India’s rising demand  for petrochemicals.
Our petrochemical  units showcased exceptional performance  this year .
The Panipat Naphtha Cracker  (PNC) processed a record 3,112 TMT of  naphtha.
During the year , the first phase  of the Panipat Naphtha Cracker expansion,  the Para-Xylene/Purified Terephthalic  Acid (PX-PTA) Revamp Project and the  new Ethylene Glycol plant in Paradip were  successfully commissioned, boosting our  production capacity.
Moving forward, the  Butyl Acrylate plant at Gujarat Refinery is  scheduled for commissioning in 2024-25.
We are also setting up Polypropylene units  at Barauni and Gujarat Refineries that will  be commissioned in 2025-26.
In a groundbreaking move, we completed  our first-ever import of Low-Density  Polyethylene (LDPE) from South Korea.
This  step serves to enhance our existing product  portfolio and meet the evolving needs of  the promising polymer market.
We plan  to scale up imports of other petrochemical  grades not currently produced by  IndianOil, broadening our market reach  and competitive edge.
Furthermore, we  Marketing: Strengthening Leadership In the past year , your Company enhanced its  assets, thereby strengthening its leadership  position and market presence significantly.
We commissioned 1,260 fuel stations, and by  the end of June 2024, another 248 stations  were added, bringing the total to 37,697  nationwide.
This represents 45% of all such  outlets commissioned by PSUs.
Additionally,  we commissioned three LPG bottling plants  and expanded our LPG distributorship  network to 12,883 till June 2024.
In 2023-24, our customer reach continued to  grow in key fuel segments, with petrol sales  increasing by 3.3% and LPG sales achieving  a 3.1% growth over the previous year .
With  a market share of over 45% and more than  15 Crore customers, we continue to lead  the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri  Ujjwala Yojna (PMUY), that has ushered in a  clean cooking era.
To further strengthen our  have also expanded export operations to  geographies such as Nepal, Bangladesh,  Sri Lanka, Vietnam, and Africa.
With these advancements, we aim to have  a diverse range of petrochemical products  under the PROPEL brand.
This will help us  cater to the varied needs of our customers,  both within and beyond our borders.
LPG business, we have introduced several  customer-centric initiatives.
I can proudly say that for nearly six decades,  our superbrand ‘Indane’ has revolutionised  domestic LPG in India and has transformed  lives and businesses.
Customer safety  remains the cornerstone of our journey,  as we continue to implement industry- first initiatives to ensure that safety  extends from our premises right to our  customers’ homes.
Our endeavours for  promoting strict quality controls, regular  equipment maintenance and campaigns  encouraging free LPG basic safety checks of  domestic installations and the replacement  of ‘suraksha’ hoses at customers’ homes  have resulted in a significant reduction in  domestic accidents by around 50% over  the previous year .
These efforts highlight  our constant resolve to create a safer  environment for our customers, reinforcing  the trust and reliability associated with the  Indane brand.
I am also delighted to share that our  lubricants business has emerged as one  of our most valuable segments, with a  Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)  of 15.3% over the last four years.
In 2023-24,  we achieved our best-ever sales volume of  722 TMT in the domestic market, reflecting  a year-on-year growth of 4.4%.
Including  the export market, our total sales volume  reached 728 TMT, with a year-on-year  growth of 3.7%.
These achievements  underscore our drive to maintain a robust  and diversified product portfolio Your Company continues to lead in the niche  sectors of explosives and cryogenics, with  a forward-looking strategy to expand and  innovate.
In the explosives market, we are  broadening our footprint in Southern and  Western India with three upcoming plants,  enhancing our manufacturing capabilities  and market presence.
In the cryogenics  segment, we are widening our reach  through strategic initiatives, reflecting our  pioneering advancements and our ability  to meet dynamic demands of the future.
Furthermore, our SWAGAT outlets have  expanded to 165 till June 2024, offering  amenities and services for our customers to  recharge, refuel, and refresh.
These outlets  provide enhanced customer delight and  make travel a comfortable and enjoyable  experience.
Beyond Indian borders, we have  strengthened our presence in neighbouring  countries such as Nepal, Sri Lanka, the  Maldives, and the Middle East have yielded  rich dividends.
A major milestone was  achieved with an agreement for setting  up a lube plant in Nepal through a Joint  Venture (JV).
In the UAE, your Company has  made significant strides in strengthening its  presence in the lubes sector with the launch  of two new grades of SERVO lubricants.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 016 017  Chairman addressing the gathering at the US-India Biofuels Summit 2024 Dignitaries at the MotoGP inauguration in Noida, Uttar Pradesh Chairman handing over the winning trophy of Moto2 race at MotoGP Expanding Horizons  Innovating for the Future The year 2023-24 has been one of  astounding accomplishments and  innovations for your Company.
We became  the first Indian Company to introduce FIM  (Federation Internationale De Motocyclisme)  Category 2 Race fuel, aptly named “STORM- Ultimate Racing Fuel”.
Further cementing  our presence in the global market, we  partnered with the prestigious FIM as the  ‘Official Fuel Partner’ for the Asia Road  Racing Championship (ARRC) for three  years, from 2024 to 2026.
Additionally,  we forged a groundbreaking partnership  with MotoGP, the pinnacle of motorcycle  racing, to sponsor the first-ever MotoGP  event held in India at Buddh International  Circuit, Noida.
This collaboration marked  a significant milestone in the realm of  motorsports, as we showcased XP100, our  premium petrol.
We are also poised to revolutionise the  world of motorsports by beginning the  production of specialised fuel for Formula  1 cars, the apex of racing.
Recently certified  to meet FIA 2024 specifications, this fuel  will be produced at the Paradip Refinery,  propelling your Company into a select  league of global leaders capable of fuelling  the pinnacle of automotive performance.
Catalysing Aspirations To support your Company’s expansive  operations and growth ambitions, it has  become imperative that new innovative  business structures are created to source  funds and provide agile and efficient  investment structure.
In a strategic move,  IndianOil became the first commercial  non-finance Company to commence its  operations as a finance Company in GIFT  City with the establishment of a wholly  owned subsidiary, IOC Global Capital  Management IFSC Limited (IGCMIL).
This  initiative aims to not only provide significant  financial benefits but also fortify IndianOil’s  position as a leading global energy  Company.
During 2024-25, IGCMIL intends to execute  transactions such as refinancing of External  Commercial Borrowing (ECB) loans and  providing a revolving working capital line for  its group entities through pooling of funds  under its global treasury operations.
The  Company is evaluating proposals for ship  leasing and financing, fund management  services, and captive insurance, with  the support of IFSCA, to ensure swift  operationalisation of these verticals.
Leading the Charge for a Greener  Tomorrow As we continue to expand our market  reach and achieve significant milestones,  your Company has been at the forefront of  innovation, driving the nation’s transition  towards carbon neutrality.
Our pioneering  green initiatives, including Hydrogen  Mobility, Hydrogen Transportation, Bio- fuels, Electric Mobility, Solar Cooktop and  Minimising Water Footprint are central to  our strategic vision for a cleaner energy  future.
Beyond business, our efforts include  expanding the green cover to over four  Million trees, while also spearheading  various initiatives to preserve our rich  biodiversity.
These endeavors align with  our strong business practices that adhere  to Environmental, Social, and Governance  (ESG) principles.
Every action we take reflects our resolve  to infuse green into our business, nation,  and planet.
By scaling up our efforts,  we have transformed how we operate,  ensuring a sustainable future with a  strong emphasis on circularity.
In line  with the vision, we have introduced our  brand of recycled plastics.
‘CYCLOPLAST’  integrates recycled petrochemicals with  virgin plastics, promoting responsible  disposal and reuse in manufacturing and  consumption.
Additionally, our eco-friendly  garments made from recycled PET bottles  under the brand name ‘Unbottled’ have  been applauded across the world.
These  green uniforms, designed for IndianOil fuel  station attendants and Indane LPG delivery  personnel, showcase our commitment to  weaving sustainability into every aspect of  our business.
In pursuit of our vision for a greener future,  your Company has resolved to consolidate  its green initiatives under a single umbrella  by setting up a wholly owned subsidiary  (WoS), ‘Terra Clean Limited’.
This new  entity will undertake low carbon, new,  clean, and green energy businesses.
By  streamlining our efforts under one arm, we  will optimise resource allocation, enhance  innovation, and implement cutting-edge  solutions more efficiently.
As part of its  carbon-neutral energy vision, your Company  plans to establish 1 GW of renewable  energy capacity with an investment of over   H 5,000 Crore.
This green arm will spearhead  our initiatives in renewable energy, ensuring  that we remain at the forefront of the energy  transition and contribute significantly to  India’s ambitious renewable energy targets.
Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas, receiving E10 Ethanol Blended  Gasoline Reference Fuel sampleThis marks a monumental achievement,  exemplifying our relentless pursuit of  innovation and excellence.
Taking a step  further , IndianOil’s R&D is gearing up to  develop Formula 1 fuel that will meet the  stringent 2026 specifications that mandates  use of clean fuel derived from non-fossil  sources.
This move will place us at the  forefront of sustainable fuel technology on  the global stage.
Under our green initiatives, we launched  our second eco-friendly SERVO container ,  SERVO PET360 in a 1-Litre pack, utilising  recycled plastic.
This follows the successful  introduction of the SERVO container with  30% Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR)  content, reinforcing our resolve to protect  Mother Nature.
Our niche products have also seen  significant growth and market penetration.
As of June 2024, high-octane petrol, XP95  is available at over 11,700 fuel stations,  establishing us as the market leader with  58.2% market share.
While XtraGreen, our  environmentally friendly diesel, is available  at over 7,200 outlets, where we hold a  dominant 96.5% market share.
Similarly,  XP100, our premium 100 octane rating  petrol, is now available in 100 cities across  the country, catering to the fuel demands  of high-end luxury cars and bikes.
Taking a  step further , we recently introduced XP100  to the island nation market through Lanka  IOC (LIOC) where it has received positive  feedback.
During the year , we launched Reference  Diesel and Gasoline fuel from our Panipat  and Paradip Refineries, marking India’s  entry into a select group of global players  who manufacture this advanced fuel.
These indigenously developed fuels,  used in the calibration and testing of  vehicles by automobile manufacturers and  testing agencies, offer significant import  substitution.
This initiative not only reflects  our technological prowess but also gives a  strong impetus to the ‘Make in India’ mission.
These milestones and product expansions  reflect your Company’s resolve to drive  growth and deliver value to our stakeholders  by leveraging innovation and sustainability.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 018 019  IndianOil handed over state-of-the-art green hydrogen fuel cell bus  to the Indian Army Hydrogen Fuel Station at IndianOil R&D Centre in Faridabad, Haryana Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas launching ETHANOL 100 Pioneering Hydrogen Mobility  Solutions Your Company is emerging as the game- changer in creating a robust ecosystem  from conceptualising green hydrogen plants  at its refineries, to revolutionising India’s  hydrogen mobility.
In collaboration with  Tata Motors, we have mobilised a fleet of  15 hydrogen fuel cell buses that emit only  water vapor , exemplifying our commitment  to promote sustainable transportation.
A landmark achievement in this journey was  reached in September 2023 with the rollout  of two hydrogen fuel cell buses, marking a  first in the nation.
We have also entered into  a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)  with the Indian Army, handing over one  green hydrogen fuel cell bus as an initial  step towards pioneering hydrogen mobility  in the armed forces.
Further collaborations  with the defence forces are on the horizon,  underscoring our commitment to expanding  hydrogen mobility across various sectors.
We are also planning to deploy four  hydrogen fuel cell buses in Gujarat, that  will operate between Vadodara and the  Statue of Unity.
These buses will be powered  at our hydrogen refueling stations, and the  trial runs will provide invaluable insights  into the practical applications of hydrogen  for mobility.
Future-Proofing Pipelines for  Hydrogen Transportation In addition to our advancements in hydrogen  mobility, your Company is actively future  proofing our natural gas pipelines for  hydrogen transportation.
As part of this,  the Dadri-Panipat Pipeline (DPPL) has been  identified as the starting point for carrying  out a comprehensive Hydrogen Readiness  Assessment in collaboration with SNAM,  Italy.
A significant milestone in this initiative  is the planned pilot study for upto 10%  hydrogen blend, scheduled to take place  in early 2025.
By conducting these studies,  we aim to pave the way for large-scale  hydrogen transportation, contributing to the  development of a robust hydrogen economy.
Powering Progress with Natural Gas During 2023-24, your Company achieved a  significant milestone by clocking sales of  6.5 MMT (including internal consumption),  marking an impressive 49% year-on-year  increase.
This growth rate has propelled our  market share in India’s Natural Gas market  to 13%, up from 10% in the previous year .
We signed agreements with Abu Dhabi  National Oil Company (ADNOC), UAE, and  TotalEnergies, France, for the supply of 2  MMTPA LNG under a multi-year long-term  deal.
Additionally, the 2.25 MMTPA LNG  contract renewal with Qatar Energy through  Petronet LNG Ltd. was also completed,  fortifying our supply chain and enhancing  India’s energy security.
In the Small-Scale LNG (SS-LNG) segment,  we achieved the highest-ever sales of  151 TMT during the year , reflecting a  remarkable year-on-year growth of 125%.
Significant efforts are in place to promote  LNG as a viable fuel option for heavy-duty  road transportation.
The commencement  of LNG sales from our first retail outlet  in Sriperumbudur , Tamil Nadu, and the  upcoming commissioning of fifteen new  LNG stations on the Golden Quadrilateral  and other major National Highways of India  highlight our strides in this segment.
The commissioning of the Dhamra LNG  Terminal marks another milestone.
This  terminal, along with our terminal at Ennore,  has strengthened our presence on the  eastern coast of the country.
Our Barauni  and Paradip Refineries, as well as our other  customers in the eastern region, are now  connected to the gas grid and are receiving  supplies from the Dhamra Terminal.
Looking ahead, we envision playing a bigger  role in India’s gas market, contributing to  the growth of the natural gas sector .
By the  end of the decade, we aim to see our sales  growing by three folds from current levels  and plan to enhance our infrastructure  capacity accordingly to meet the evolving  energy needs of the nation.
Advancing Biofuels for a Clean  Future   Your Company continues to lead pioneering  initiatives in the biofuels sector .
On the  ethanol front, we have set industry  benchmarks with India’s first 2G ethanol  plant and the world’s first 3G ethanol plant.
Additionally, we are establishing India’s  first commercial-scale Sustainable Aviation  Fuel (SAF) plant at Panipat, a significant  step towards meeting India’s SAF blending  mandate and addressing the environmental  impact of aviation sector .
In alignment with the Government’s Ethanol  Blended Petrol (EBP) Programme, we have  made considerable progress, achieving over  a 15% ethanol mix in petrol and resulting  in reduced dependence on fuel imports,  foreign exchange savings, and enhanced  support for domestic agriculture sector .
As of June 2024, we have expanded the  availability of E20 fuel to over 5,700 outlets  across the country.
In a landmark move  in March 2024, we introduced India’s first  ETHANOL 100 fuel, that is now available  at 400 outlets in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh,  Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil  Nadu.
This step highlights a significant  shift towards sustainable technologies,  instilling confidence in manufacturers to  introduce flex-fuel engines and invest in  ethanol-based vehicles.
Your Company is at the forefront of the  SATAT initiative, promoting biofuels  as a sustainable automotive option.
As  the first Indian Company to launch a  commercial CBG (Compressed Bio Gas) brand, ‘IndiGreen’, we have solidified our  leadership in the ‘waste to energy’ sector .
Notably, our sales of CBG under this brand  reached an impressive 7.8 TMT in 2023-24.
During this time, we also established two  CBG plants at Gorakhpur and Hingonia and  facilitated the commissioning of six more,  while also issuing over 650 Letters of Intent  (LoI) under SATAT.
This brings the total  number of commissioned CBG plants to  31 and the total LoIs to over 1,700 till June  2024.
By transforming waste into valuable  energy resources, we are leading the charge  in sustainable energy innovations.
Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas, Secretary, MoPNG & Chairman  receiving the first commercial flight fuelled with SAF Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 020 021  EV Charging Facility at IndianOil fuel station Chairman addressing the ‘Summit on Clean Cooking in Africa’  held at UNESCO, Paris Signing of Binding Term Sheet for formation of JV between  IndianOil and Panasonic Cheetah Cubs at Kuno National Park Pioneering Future Mobility  Your Company is also making significant  strides in the realm of electric mobility,  underpinning our drive to greener  transportation solutions.
As of June  2024, we have commissioned 10,028 EV  charging stations, which constitute 59.7%  of all EV charging stations in the country.
Additionally, battery swapping services  are available at 99 fuel stations, providing  flexible and efficient solutions for electric  vehicle users.
This expansion aims to  enhance the accessibility and convenience  of EV charging infrastructure, to support  the growing adoption of electric vehicles  across the country.
In the realm of battery technology, your  Company has formed a Joint Venture  (JV) Company, IOC Phinergy Pvt Ltd,  with Phinergy, an Israeli technology  company specialising in Aluminum-Air  (Al-air) batteries.
This JV is focused on  the commercialisation of Al-air battery  technology in India, which promises an  efficient energy storage solution.
In a landmark move, we have entered into a  strategic agreement with Panasonic Energy  Company, Japan, to explore opportunities  Revolutionising Sustainable Cooking Building on our promise for a cleaner  and greener future, your Company has  introduced another revolutionary initiative  with the promotion of ‘ Surya Nutan,’ our  innovative solar cooktop.
In 2023-24, we  entered into an agreement with EKI Energy  Services to promote and deploy 350 units of  ‘Surya Nutan’ in Dhar , Madhya Pradesh, as  part of a clean cooking project leveraging  carbon financing.
We are also planning  to deploy 1,000 units in Sonbhadra, Uttar  Pradesh, with joint funding from the Bill &  Melinda Gates Foundation and EKI Energy  Services Limited, with the modalities  currently being finalised.
In our continued efforts to promote clean  cooking solutions, we have showcased  ‘Surya Nutan ’ on various prestigious  platforms and forums.
Notably, we  introduced this pioneering indoor solar  cooking system at the International Energy  Agency’s (IEA) ‘Summit on Clean Cooking  in Africa’ held at UNESCO Headquarters,  Paris, on May 13, 2024.
The event garnered  significant attention from global leaders,  for advanced cell manufacturing of Lithium- ion batteries in India.
With a vision to propel  ‘Make in India’ for the world, the JV plans  to establish a one GWh capacity factory  by 2027, with an ambitious expansion to  5 GWh by 2031.
This collaboration aims to  position India as a global hub for advanced  battery technology, supporting the nation’s  transition to sustainable energy and  transportation solutions.
In the battery swapping space, our  joint venture with Sun Mobility Pte Ltd,  donors, businesses, financiers, and other  stakeholders, highlighting our dedication to  advancing clean cooking solutions.
These initiatives underscore our efforts  to integrate advanced, sustainable  technologies into everyday life.
By promoting  ‘Surya Nutan,’ we are making a significant  impact on reducing carbon emissions and  enhancing the quality of life for communities.
Fostering Environmental  Sustainability Conserving Biodiversity  Beyond operations and products, your  Company is scripting a new chapter in  India’s biodiversity conservation.
In  partnership with the National Tiger  Conservation Authority (NTCA), we are  powering the transcontinental Cheetah  relocation project.
Our environmental  stewardship initiatives have shown  remarkable success in recent years.
The  ‘Project Cheetah’ has seen a surge in the  cheetah cub population.
In 2024, Cheetahs  Gamini, Asha, and Jwala gave birth to 13  cubs, bringing the total cheetah coalition  to 26 as on date.
This thriving population  reflects our multifaceted efforts for  conserving the vulnerable species.
The successful relocation of more than  16,000 corals along the coast of Gujarat, the  largest translocation project in India, stands  as another testament to our commitment  to such environmental conservation.
Singapore, is all set to establish one of the  largest battery-swapping networks in India  by 2030.
This JV will integrate its technology  with Original Equipment Manufacturers  (OEMs) and expand its network development  across major cities.
Battery swapping  offers a quick and convenient solution  for EV users, eliminating long charging  times, extending battery life and reducing  electronic waste.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 022 023  Your Smile is our biggest profit LINAC machine installed by IndianOil at Silchar Cancer Care Centre Chairman handing over AI enabled visual aid to a beneficiary under  Project Drishti IndianOil accelerating TB Mukt Bharat by ensuring Diagonistic Machines in  Uttarakhand and other states Optimising Water Footprint Your Company is committed to minimising its  water footprint through the implementation  of innovative water management practices  across our refineries.
One notable example  is the Mathura Refinery, which utilises water  from a sewage treatment plant (STP) set  up through a Public-Private-Partnership  model at Laxmi Nagar .
This initiative has  significantly reduced the refinery’s fresh  water intake, with the refinery currently  receiving approximately 7 MLD of treated  waste water , reducing its freshwater  consumption by 50%.
Similarly, Gujarat Refinery has adopted the  use of treated wastewater from the Vadodara  Municipal Corporation’s STP.
Currently,  the refinery receives approximately 17  MLD of treated wastewater , reducing its  freshwater intake by 25%.
We plan to further  enhance this initiative over the next couple  of years, aiming to utilise 40 MLD of treated  wastewater for industrial purposes.
Our Haldia Refinery has also inked an MoU  with Syama Prasad Mookerjee (SPM) Port to  reuse treated wastewater from an upcoming  4 MLD STP at Haldia.
In the last five years,  we have achieved total water savings of  about 54 MLD.
It is noteworthy that despite  commissioning several major projects,  the increase in industrial freshwater  consumption at our refineries was limited  to just 11 MLD, compared to a potential  increase of 78 MLD over the same period.
Revitalising our Glorious Heritage In a move to honour India’s rich heritage  and celebrate the legacy of IndianOil, your  Company set up its first Heritage Retail  Outlet (RO) at Anjar , Gujarat, on April 13,  2023.
Since then, we have commissioned 27  Heritage ROs across 25 states and 2 Union  Territories.
These outlets not only reflect  our nation’s storied past but also provide  top-notch services, weaving together the  essence of history with modern excellence.
Scripting new chapters in preserving India’s  culture, we are bringing the past to the  present by developing world-class facilities  at prominent heritage sites through the  IndianOil Foundation (IOF), in collaboration  with the Archaeological Survey of India.
Out  of the 42 UNESCO World Heritage sites in  India, IOF is associated with seven.
Beyond  UNESCO sites, IOF has also developed  tourist facilities at nationally important  heritage sites.
These initiatives illustrate our impactful  contributions for preserving India’s cultural  heritage while simultaneously enhancing  our brand legacy.
Catalysing Social Change  Epitomising our pledge to empower  lives, your Company’s Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) initiatives are making  meaningful impact on communities,  spanning various areas such as healthcare  and sanitation, education and environmental  stewardship.
We are proud to be catalysts for  social change, empowering communities,  igniting hope, and transforming lives.
Your Company is making a significant  difference in public health, aligning with  India’s mission to eradicate TB by 2025.
We have expanded our Intensive TB  Elimination Programme to states including  Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand,  Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Haryana.
By  providing essential TB diagnostic equipment  and ambulances, we are addressing critical  gaps in testing and identification of TB  patients.
To date, our efforts have resulted  in testing of nearly one lakh individuals  leading to identification of over 14,000  positive cases.
With a survival rate of over 90%, this  initiative has been declared a success.
It  highlights our resolve to balance ecological  preservation with our business objectives.
Reflecting our deep-rooted environmental  consciousness, we have set up sprawling  ecoparks that are nestled in the heart of all  our refineries.
Standing as a perfect blend  of industry and ecology, these verdant oases  spread over 230 acres across locations,  offering sanctuaries to over 300 species  of resident and migratory birds.
From protecting endangered species like  the Single-Horned Indian Rhino and Olive  Ridley Turtle to preserving tiger habitats  in Sunderbans, we are making a positive  difference to the world.
IndianOil is committed to protecting the Single Horned Indian Rhino Addressing the rising incidence of cancer ,  your Company has made significant  contributions to comprehensive cancer  care.
In 2023-24, we provided cancer care  equipment to hospitals in cancer-prone  areas such as Silchar Cancer Centre at  Silchar in collaboration with Tata Trusts  as well as various Tata Memorial Centres  (TMC) that includes Mahamana Pandit  Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre at  Varanasi, Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospitals  in Punjab, Bihar & Andhra Pradesh and   Dr B Barooah Cancer Institute at Guwahati.
These contributions are expected to touch  the lives of around One Lakh patients  annually.
We have also supported pioneering  healthcare initiatives such as the aerial  delivery of medical supplies, through drones  to primary and community health centres,  bridging gaps in healthcare infrastructure  and serving more than 25,000 people in  the remote areas of Kandhamal district,  Odisha.
Similarly, under Project Drishti,  we are assisting over 800 visually impaired  individuals with AI-powered Smart Vision  Glasses (SVGs) across major cities.
To  strengthen the health infrastructure of the  aspirational district of Narmada in Gujarat,  we have provided a Neonatal Intensive  Care Unit (NICU) on Wheels.
This unique  initiative, expected to benefit more than  600 newborns annually, ensures timely  transport to specialised NICU facilities,   significantly reducing neonatal mortality  rates in the district and nearby areas.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 024 025  Chairman receiving the ‘Friend of FIDE’ honour from FIDE President,  Arkady Dvorkovich Inauguration of TJ’s Store at IndianOil fuel station by Lieutenant Governor, Delhi Powering Sports: Nurturing  Champions Extending its commitment to empowering  lives, your Company is championing sports  and serving as a beacon for India’s sporting  talents.
Our mission aims to energise India’s  sports landscape by nurturing talent at  the grassroots and empowering women  in sports.
We are nurturing the next generation of  talent through our sports scholarships.
The  Acers programme is supporting over 200  young sports scholars.
Significantly half of  these scholarships are being extended to  budding female athletes.
In March 2024, we took another significant  step by signing an MoU with the National  Sports Development Fund (NSDF) for the  ‘IndianOil Shakti’ programme.
This initiative Chairman with IndianOil Acers scholarship beneficiaries IndianOil Women’s Hockey team striking a winning pose with Chairman On-Boarding of Sheetal Devi in IndianOil aims to empower 30 talented young girls  in athletics and pave their path to success  on national and international platforms.
A  proud milestone was achieved when Ankita,  our ‘Shakti’ girl, was selected for the Paris  Olympics 2024.
Furthering our emphasis on para-sports,  we entered into an agreement with the  Paralympic Committee of India (PCI)  in October 2023 to fuel the Indian Para  contingent at major international events,  including the Paris Paralympics 2024.
Embracing diversity and inclusivity in  sports, we welcomed Sheetal Devi, world  champion in compound archery, as the first  Gold Medalists of FIDE’s 3rd Intercontinental Chess for Freedom online championship sharing their experience with Chairman Transforming Lives Your Company’s endeavours go  beyond business, fuelling dreams and  empowering lives through impactful social  transformation programmes, especially  through sports.
Our flagship social upliftment programmes,  ‘Parivartan - Prison to Pride’ and ‘ Nayi  Disha - Smile for Juvenile,’ embody our  promise to providing second chances and  empowering lives.
These initiatives have  been transformative for prison inmates  and juveniles, offering them opportunities  for rehabilitation and reintegration into  society.
During 2023-24, we expanded our  reach to nearly 130 prisons and correctional  facilities across 23 states and six Union  Territories, impacting over 6,300 inmates  to date.
The success of these programmes  was vindicated when teams from Yerawada  Central Jail, Pune, and Children Observation  Home, Bhopal, clinched gold medals for  India at FIDE’s 3rd Intercontinental ‘Chess  for Freedom’ online championship in  October 2023.
In recognition of our efforts,  we were honoured with the ‘Friend of FIDE’  award that was bestowed for leveraging  chess to inspire and transform lives.
Further exemplifying our mission to  empower the marginalised, we have  collaborated with State prison departments  to establish fuel stations operated by  current and former inmates under the  ‘Umeed - A Hope’ project.
This initiative  fosters social reintegration and a sense of  belonging, with its reach expanding to 50  operational outlets in the last year .
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 026 027  Dr Shiv Sarin addressing IOCians on maintaining a healthy liver Our People, Our Pride At IndianOil, our people have always  been the cornerstone of our success.
It  is their collective passion, dedication,  and commitment that drive our progress  and fuel our growth.
Recognising this, we  Embracing a Brighter Tomorrow Bestowed with the mantle of being India’s  energy leader , your Company has been    pioneering India’s green energy transition  with several trailblazing initiatives.
We  are thus working tenaciously to steer  the  immense responsibility as well as harness  the emerging opportunities to gain the  ‘first-mover’ advantage.
Your Company firmly believes that as  these technologies mature, we will be  able to scale up and fully capitalise on  the prospects, creating a positive outcome  for the Company, stakeholders, and the  nation.
These investments will help secure  your Company’s leadership position as ‘The  Energy of India’ for years and decades to  come in a new era of low carbon future.
Talking of the key elements, renewable  energy will be a major driver for  decarbonising India’s energy mix.
Your  Company thus aims to enhance our  renewable energy capacity to 31 GW by  2030, primarily through solar and wind  projects.
This expansion aligns with India’s  target to achieve 500 GW of installed  IndianOil Compress Bio Gas (CBG) Plant at Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh have consistently focused on creating a  supportive and inclusive work environment  that empowers every individual to reach  their full potential.
I am delighted to share that we have  enhanced our focus on employee well- para-athlete and the youngest member of  our sports family.
I am happy to share that till June 2024,12  IndianOil sportspersons have qualified for  the Paris Olympics and are a part of the  Indian contingent.
The list includes Sharath  Kamal, Manika Batra, Manav Thakkar , and  Archana Kamat in Table Tennis; Satwik  Sairaj Rankireddy, Chirag Shetty, and  Lakshya Sen in Badminton; Rohan Bopanna  and Sumit Nagal in Tennis, and scholarship  players Aman Sehrawat in Wrestling and  Esha Singh and Raiza Dhillon in Shooting.
We are proud that IOCian Sharath Kamal  has been chosen as the Indian team’s  flagbearer at the Olympics.
Our sports  stars are indeed the pride of the nation,  illustrating the tremendous impact of our  sports initiatives and our determination  to transform India into a sporting nation.
Send-off Ceremony for Indian Paralympics Contingent supported by IndianOil Dr Naresh Trehan with Chairman and Functional Directors launching Health  Manual under 4R4U initiative of IndianOil being through the launch of ‘4R4U’ Wellness  Initiative this year .
This comprehensive  programme addresses physical, emotional,  and mental health challenges faced by our  IOCians as well as their families.
Understanding the importance of a  supportive workplace, especially for  our female IOCians, we have introduced  initiatives like the ‘Aarohi’ programme,  designed to help women develop leadership  skills and gain self-confidence.
We have  also revised the Child Care Leave (CCL)  Policy to provide greater flexibility,  supporting our female colleagues in their  professional journeys.
These initiatives reflect your Company’s  drive to create an environment where  IOCians can thrive.
By fostering an  inclusive, supportive, and empowering  work environment, we are enhancing the  well-being of our people and strengthening  the foundation of our Company’s success.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 028 029  IndianOil Southern Region Pipelines Team with Chairman renewable capacity by the same year .
With a conducive, robust ecosystem being  facilitated by the Government of India, the  adoption of renewable power , particularly  solar energy is expected to rise.
In the last  decade, India’s total solar power installed  capacity grew almost 30 times to reach  around 84 GW.
In this evolving landscape,  it makes perfect sense for your Company to  adapt and scale up efforts in the renewable  sector .
In line with this goal, we are poised to  integrate renewable power into our refinery  operations.
We are also energising our fuel  stations and installations with solar power .
Furthermore, in the realm of Compressed  Bio Gas (CBG), we are planning to set up  30 CBG plants nationwide this year .
These  plants will contribute significantly to India’s  goal of producing 5 Million Tonnes of biogas  by 2030.
Hydrogen presents another key opportunity  for securing India’s energy needs and drive  the green mobility ambitions.
To fulfill its  potential as the ‘fuel of the future’, we  are making significant strides in green  hydrogen, aiming for 50% of our hydrogen  consumption to be green by 2030.
Our plan  involves setting up green hydrogen plants  across all refineries and propelling the  advent of Hydrogen mobility in the country.
We believe that as major users increase  their consumption, it will activate other  industries, reduce costs, and pave the way  for hydrogen mobility to gain traction in  the country.
Fuelling future mobility is another critical  area as India takes major stride towards  its target of 30% EV market share by 2030.
Your Company is leading the charge by  developing a comprehensive ecosystem  for battery technology.
We are betting  big on the promising pathway of battery  swapping solutions, particularly for the two  and three-wheelers segment, with plans to  expand this avenue for heavy-duty vehicle  applications.
This approach envisions to be  a game changer for the sector .
In addition to battery swapping, we see  battery manufacturing as another promising  avenue.
By investing in advanced chemistry  cells for lithium-ion batteries, we aim  to open new opportunities and gain an  edge in this segment.
Our collaboration  with Panasonic exemplifies our strategy  to collaborate with technology leaders to  shape the future of e-mobility in India.
While embracing new pathways for  sustainable growth, our strategy also calls  for the enhancement of our petrochemical  business to cater to the increasing needs of  the country.
As India’s economy continues  its ascendant trajectory, we are scaling  up our capacity, targeting an increase to  13 MMT and achieving a petrochemical  intensity index of 15% by 2030.
This strategic  move aims to meet rising domestic demand  and provide import substitution, ensuring  stability during volatile crude price cycles.
By integrating petrochemicals into our  refining investments, we are expanding  our product range to include niche offerings  like specialty chemicals and biopolymers.
This will enhance customer satisfaction  by offering a one-stop solution for a  comprehensive range of chemicals under  our brand.
Our vision is to lead the way  in the petrochemical sector , contributing  positively to the nation’s economy and  industrial growth.
We continue to create positive ripples  beyond business, encompassing social  welfare and biodiversity conservation.
Your  Company is actively involved in preserving  India’s rich biodiversity, targeting protection  of species like Cheetahs, Rhinoceros, and  Tigers.
We are committed to scaling up our  efforts to support the nation’s conservation  goals covering One Lakh square kilometers  across ecologically sensitive areas by 2047.
From supporting healthcare initiatives to  nurturing grassroots sports talent, our  social outreach programmes are making a  difference.
Our meaningful actions reflect  our steadfast commitment to empowering  communities and transforming lives.
Your Company’s support for sports  is making a significant impact in  transforming India into a sporting nation.
By providing comprehensive support to  nurture champions through infrastructure  development and sponsorships, we ensure  that our support to nurture talents is leading  Chairman with a delegate at the Clean Cooking Stoves Expo, Paris to tremendous results.
This was evident  when 17 IndianOil sports icons brought  medals and honor to the country in the Asian  Games.
Taking this momentum forward, our  bright sports stars from the IndianOil family,  an integral part of the Indian contingent, are  geared to energise the Paris Olympics.
We  proudly join the Nation in cheering them  as they bring more glory to India with their  inspiring performances.
This is a testament  to our role in empowering India’s next- generation talents with our ‘Positive Energy’.
As we infuse positivity in business and  beyond, our vision remains clear and  multifaceted, reflecting our determination  to foster environmental stewardship,  growth, and leadership.
We aim to achieve  operational Net-Zero by 2046, aligning with  our focus on environmental sustainability.
Simultaneously, we are embarking on an  aspirational journey to become a ‘One  Trillion Dollar Giant by 2047,’ in line with  India’s transformation into a $30 Trillion  economy.
In the same vein, we aim to  become the nation’s lead energiser , fulfilling  12.5% of India’s energy needs by 2050.
These ambitious goals are embedded  in our blueprint to evolve into a fully  integrated energy major .
We are focussed on  maximising value and transitioning from a  fuel-centric to a molecule-centric Company,  ensuring we are at the forefront of India’s  energy transition.
As we embrace the future with confidence,  we are poised to overcome the odds and  challenges.
We will continue to illuminate  the path of India’s progress, reinforcing our  intent to be the beacon of ‘Positive Energy  in Business & Beyond’.
Thank you for your unwavering trust and  support as we embark on this exciting  journey ahead.
Sd/-  (Shrikant Madhav Vaidya) Chairman, IndianOil Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 030 031  Governance of Risks Mitigating Risks  with Agility At IndianOil, we acknowledge the fact that our operating environment is prone  to volatility, emanating from both national and international factors.
Hence, our  risk management framework is designed to systematically identify, evaluate  and mitigate potential risks, ensuring the resilience of our business model.
Risk Governance Structure The Board of Directors supervises and strengthens the risk management framework after conducting due diligence of  potential risks.
The Risk Management Committee (RMC) is responsible for reviewing and approving risk management  policies and guidelines.
The Committee ensures that the risk management practices align with our overarching  objectives and regulatory requirements.
5 1 Business risk  assessment Systematic Identification and  Evaluation • Identifies and categorises risks  based on impact and likelihood • Categorises risks into four levels:  High, Medium, On Radar, Low 2 Risk Mitigation and  Monitoring • Employ strategies such  as avoidance, reduction,  transfer and acceptance • Continuous monitoring  and regular reviews to  ensure effectiveness 3 • Strategic planning and  operational decisions with risk  assessment insights • Balance risks and opportunities   for sustainable growth 4 • Regular meetings of  the Risk Management  Compliance Board • Address emerging  concerns and adjust  mitigation plans proactively • Foster collaboration across  business segments and  departments • Ensure comprehensive risk  assessment and effective  mitigation strategies  through shared expertise 1 2 3 4 5 Continuous  Improvement Collaboration and  Coordination Integration into  Decision-Making Multi-level risk management Risk Management  Compliance Board  (RMCB) • Senior executives  evaluate reported  risks • Ensure proper risk  assessment and  monitoring State/Unit Level  Committees • Identify and discuss  potential risks at  the local level • Report findings to  RMCB for evaluation  and categorisation Risk Management  Committee (RMC) • Board Committee   comprising  Directors & CRO • Ensures  implementation   of policies •  Approves changes  in the risk  register , if any  Senior Executive  Involvement • Provide data and  insights on identified  risks • Collaborate on  developing and  implementing  mitigation strategies Market Competitiveness Risk Macroeconomic Volatility Risk Losing competitiveness due to various factors such as increasing competition, technological advancements, and changing consumer  preferences continue to be a potential risk.
These challenges pose threats to our market share, profitability and ability to adapt to  evolving industry dynamics, necessitating strategic initiatives to maintain our competitive edge.
As a major player in the energy sector , we face various macroeconomic risks that can impact our operational and financial  performance.
One significant macroeconomic risk is the volatility in global crude oil prices.
Factors such as geopolitical tensions,  supply-demand dynamics, and global economic conditions can lead to price volatility, posing challenges for our financial  stability and planning.
Mitigation Strategy Capitals Impacted Material Issues Addressed To mitigate this risk, we are enhancing  operational efficiency through process  optimisation, fostering innovation by  investing in research and development,  and maintaining a customer-centric  approach by continuously adapting  to changing market demands and  preferences.
Additionally, we are  emphasising strategic collaborations  and partnerships, regularly upgrading  technology, and ensuring our products  and services remain superior .
• Product stewardship • Customer satisfaction  and brand loyalty • Manufactured Capital  • Improved operational  processes  • Advanced technological  infrastructure • Financial Capital  • Increased R&D investment  • Enhanced profitability  through efficiency and  innovation Mitigation Strategy Capitals Impacted Material Issues Addressed To address this risk, we focus on robust  operational performance and efficiency  to offset potential impacts.
We diversify  our crude oil sources to mitigate supply  uncertainties and implement process  innovations to achieve cost savings  and enhance business resilience.
Our  dedicated team and channel partners  ensure an uninterrupted energy supply,  while the operations team reduces fuel  and energy consumption and monitors  other expenditure to improve margins  and profitability.
• Economic performance • Market volatility • Manufactured Capital  • Diversified and resilient  supply chain  • Advanced operational  processes and efficiency • Financial Capital  • Improved financial stability  • Enhanced profitability  through cost savings Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 032 033  Human Resource Risk Currency Exchange Risk We encounter human resource risks pertaining to attracting and retaining a reliable talent pool.
In addition, there may be skill gaps  in properly adopting emerging technologies, and also risks related to succession planning for key positions.
These risks can hinder  organisational growth, disrupt operations, and affect long-term sustainability if not effectively managed.
As we engage in international trade and the procurement of crude oil and petroleum products, we are exposed to currency exchange  rate fluctuations.
Changes in exchange rates impacts the cost of imports and exports, affecting our profitability.
Additionally, a  significant portion of our borrowing is in foreign exchange, and any depreciation of the rupee results in increased rupee outgo.
Mitigation Strategy Capitals Impacted Material Issues Addressed To mitigate this risk, we comply with  health and safety regulations and  implement rigorous safety protocols.
Adequate training is provided to  minimise workplace accidents  and ensure employee well-being.
We emphasise upon employee  development and training programmes  to enhance skills, knowledge and  capabilities of our workforce.
Investment in career advancement is  prioritised to mitigate the risk of skill  obsolescence.
Additionally, we foster  a culture of continuous learning to  reduce talent risk.
• Employee practices • Labour rights and retention • Health and safety • Human Capital  • Enhanced skills and  capabilities through training  • Improved employee retention  and satisfaction • Financial Capital  • Cost savings from reduced  accidents and improved  efficiency  • Long-term sustainability  through effective talent  management Mitigation Strategy Capitals Impacted Material Issues Addressed To mitigate this risk, our finance team  continuously monitors the macro and  micro-economic environments to  identify potential risks.
Fluctuations  in exchange and interest rates are  regularly assessed, and appropriate  hedging is undertaken according  to approved policies.
Continuous  cost control measures are enforced  to ensure consistent growth in  profitability, even in challenging  market conditions.
We also utilise  low-cost domestic and foreign  currency borrowings to maintain  financial stability.
• Economic performance • Market volatility • Financial Capital  • Improved financial stability  through effective hedging  • Enhanced profitability through  cost optimisation measures Environmental Risk Cybersecurity Risk We face environmental risks such as air and water pollution due to our large-scale refining and petrochemical operations, which  require stringent measures for emission control and waste management.
Additionally, we are vulnerable to the impacts of climate  change, including potential disruptions to our supply chain and infrastructure due to extreme weather events.
Our operations face the potential risk of information security breaches, including cyber threats and digital vulnerabilities, which  could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of critical data and systems.
Mitigation Strategy Capitals Impacted Material Issues Addressed To mitigate this risk, we have achieved  full BS-VI compliance in petrol and  diesel, contributing to a greener  and cleaner environment.
We are  committed to sustainable development  as an active partner of the United  Nations’ Global Compact Programme.
We have set a target to achieve  Net-Zero operational emissions by  2046, in line with India’s Net-Zero  commitment by 2070 as part of the  Panchamrit Goals announced at the  COP-26 Summit.
Our robust green  agenda focuses on pathways such as  green hydrogen, biofuels, renewables,  ecosystem restoration and Carbon  Capture Utilisation and Storage (CCUS)  to mitigate emissions.
• Managing environmental impact • Product stewardship • Climate change adaptation,  resilience, and transition • Natural Capital  • Reduced environmental  footprint through emission  control and waste management  • Enhanced sustainability  through green initiatives • Financial Capital  • Cost savings and potential  revenue from sustainable  practices and technologies  • Improved long-term financial  stability through proactive  climate risk management • Social and Relationship Capital  • Strengthened stakeholder  relationships through  commitment to sustainability  • Enhanced corporate reputation  and community trust Mitigation Strategy Capitals Impacted Material Issues Addressed To address this risk, we have  implemented a defence in-depth- width cyber security architecture.
We  have adopted a strong Data Privacy  Policy and achieved ISO 27001:2013  certification for all data centres.
Our  commitment to protecting sensitive  information.
encompasses data  concerning internal processes,  customers, partners & employees.
• Customer satisfaction  and brand loyalty • Security practices • Intellectual Capital  • Enhanced data protection and  system integrity  • Improved cybersecurity  practices • Financial Capital  • Reduced the risk of financial  loss from data breaches  • Improved financial stability  through robust security  measures Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 034 035  Business Model Delivering  Sustainable Value Economic Financial Capital INPUT VALUE CREATION PROCESS OUTCOME AND SDG ALIGNMENT STAKEHOLDER IMPACTED Manufactured Capital Intellectual Capital Equity Share Capital J 13,772 Crore Other Equity K 1,62,943 Crore Debt J 1,16,496 Crore 1  Sustaining revenue, profit growth, and a sound  financial position 2  Fostering shareholder value through revenue  and profit enhancement 3  Upholding strong cash flow and a balanced  financial standing • Investors    • Government and Regulatory Bodies • Investors  • Employees and Contractual Workers  • Government and Regulatory Bodies • Employees  • Customers  • Government and Regulatory Bodies 1  Expansion through strategic investment  and adoption of advanced technologies for  enhanced efficiency 2  Improved product and service quality, with  increased production capacity and operational  efficiency 3  Optimised capital expenditure and reduced  operational costs, facilitated by innovative  technology upgrades 1  Strengthening brand recognition and loyalty  through increased R&D investment 2  Future-proofing the Company by leveraging  potential opportunities 3  Continuous innovation to enhance product  quality and development, ensuring improved  offerings for customers Number of refineries  9 Length of pipeline  19,500+ Km  Number of marketing  touch points  61,000+ Research and  development  expenditure  J 946 Crore  Team size of R&D 454 OUTPUT Revenue  J 8,66,345 Crore  EBITDA  J 74,182 Crore  PAT  J 39,619 Crore  ROCE  20.17 % Operating   Cash Flow J 68,097 Crore Refineries throughput  73.308 MMT  Product sales  97.551 MMT Throughput achieved  by pipelines  98.626 MMT  Patents filed  1,736* Patents granted  1,088* IPs achieved under  start-up scheme 81* Incubation under start- up funding scheme  36 start-ups* SDGs SDGsSDGs Trust  Care Innovation  Passion  Nation-First Our  Values Our  Focus Custom ers EthicsPeople Innovation Technology Environm ent Exploration &  Production Crude Oil Mid-Level  Storages Natural Gas   Re-Gasification Terminal Integrated Refinery  & Petrochemicals  Complexes City Gas  Distribution  Networks Natural  Gas to Bulk  Consumers Liquefied  Natural Gas *As on March 31, 2024 Total hours of training  and skill development  9,66,239  Attrition rate  1.24% Beneficiaries of CSR  initiatives  117.66 Lakh  Dividend payout ratio  42% 42.64% procurement  from MSE vendors Renewable energy  capacity 247 MW Water recycled   41.6 Billion litres Hazardous waste  recycled  1,96,416 Tonnes  Natural Capital Human Capital Social and Relationship Capital • Employees  • Customers   • Government and Regulatory Bodies • Employees and Contractual Workers • Communities and Society  • Government and  Regulatory Bodies  • Business Partners • Customers 1  Implementing efficient environmental  management practices 2  Responsible utilisation of electricity and water  resources 3  Decreasing carbon emissions and  environmental impact through resource  optimisation and waste reduction efforts 1  Strengthening skill enhancement and equal  opportunities 2  Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workplace  with a robust leadership pipeline 3  Prioritising employee well-being through  investments in training, development, and  holistic health support 1  Providing enduring value to stakeholders and  communities 2  Cultivating lasting relationships with  stakeholders for mutual benefit 3  Enhancing the quality of life for residents in  our operational communities Energy consumed  19.62 Trillion BTU  Water consumed 149.59 Billion Litres  Investment in  renewables and  greening efforts  K409.50 Crore Employees  30321 Man-days invested in  training  1,61,040 days Spent on CSR  K457.71 Crore CSR projects ~600 Environment Social SDGs SDGs SDGs Fuel for large CustomerProduct retailing Efficient, high-end  fuels and lubricants Automated fuel  stations Aviation Rail Shipping Defence Petrol Diesel Blended fuels CNG CBG Electric vehicle  charging facilities Product Storage Blending and   Distribution Infrastructure Alternative Energy Bio Energy Wind Energy Solar Energy Oil Depots and  Terminals Aviation Fuelling  Stations LPG Bottling  Plants Lube Blending  Plants Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 036 037  Materiality Assessment Focussing on  Core Issues In our pursuit of long-term value creation, we prioritise identification of critical  factors crucial to our success in a dynamic operating environment.
Through thorough  evaluations including economic, environmental, social, and governance aspects, we  conduct materiality assessments to ensure sustainable value generation.
Our recent materiality assessment  in 2022-23 facilitated the evaluation  of issues deemed significant by our  stakeholders.
This assessment adheres  to established global standards like  GRI, UNGC, and UNSDGs.
Utilising  a structured approach, we engage  in extensive discussions with the  management to shortlist material  issues identified through stakeholder  engagement exercises.
Analysis of key trends in  oil and gas space Analysis of key risks and  the opportunities Peer benchmarking of  material issues Feedback and validation  from stakeholders Economic Environment Governance Market  Volatility Climate change adaptation,  resilience, and transition Managing  environmental impact Product   stewardship  Social Health   and safety  Customer satisfaction  and brand loyalty  Employment   practices  Labour rights  and relations  Community   development  Security   practices Waste  management Compliance  and governance  01 01 03 0302 02 04 04 Material Issues Identified Sustainable    Supply Chain Economic  Performance Digitisation Business ethics  and accountability Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 038  We owe much of our success to the  constant support and active engagement  of our investors and shareholders.
Their  endorsement of our long-term strategy,  which focuses on continuous value creation,  has been instrumental in our achievements.
Investors and Shareholders Our customers play a vital role in our  business.
They drive us to innovate and  provide solutions to tackle the world’s most  pressing challenges.
Through collaborative  efforts, we work to develop and deliver  solutions that make a meaningful and  lasting impact, guided by our shared goals  for sustainability and progress.
Customers Our teams collectively represent the  foundation of our organisation, and we  hold their contributions and well-being in  high regard.
Prioritising their safety, health,  and overall welfare remains our foremost  concern as we cultivate a workplace free  from accidents and harm.
We aim to foster  a supportive working environment for all.
Employees and Contractual Workers Expectations Delivering Value  Growth and  expansion strategy  Strong balance sheet  Ethical business conduct  Transparent disclosures  Technologically superior  products with better quality  Cost-effective and  commercially viable  products/processes  Timely response  Better engagement  through regular feedback.
Regular engagement   Fair wages  Inclusive, transparent,  equitable, and secure  working environment  Prospects for  professional advancement Stakeholder Engagement Collaborating with  Stakeholder Fraternity Empowering our investors through sound financial  management practices.
Maintaining regular communication channels to  understand and address investor expectations and  concerns promptly.
Transparent governance in terms of fostering clear  communication channels, and nurturing enduring  investor relationships.
Digital tracking for home delivery and safety  education campaigns.
Monthly production planning involving various teams.
Annual business meetings with Petrochemical  Group customers.
Engaging stakeholders through IndianOil’s WhatsApp  account and field visits.
Organising regular HSE campaigns on Standard  Operating Procedure (SOP) adherence, safety   procedures, safe TT driving and more.
Encouraging workers to report unsafe acts  and conditions.
Providing employees and contract workers at all  operating locations with regular job-specific and  safety trainings.
Implementing welfare programmes and employee  recognition initiatives to foster a safe workplace culture.
Ensuring an effective HSE Management System through  worker participation and regular training.
Maintaining clean and hygienic working conditions  and drinking water quality for stakeholder well-being.
Channel of Communication Annual General Meeting, website, social media, media  articles and interviews, shareholders’ satisfaction survey Website, customer satisfaction survey, social media,  mobile application, personalised SMS, media  articles and Interviews Team meetings, training and development sessions,  emails, notice boards, online intranet portal,  feedback through open channels of communication  with the management through various  forums,  including.
internal surveys(for employees)  on satisfaction Frequency of Communication SDGs Continuous Continuous Continuous Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 040 041  Our business partners are integral to our  success.
We are dedicated to building  strong relationships with our key service  providers, vendors, dealers, and channel  partners to cultivate mutual understanding  of our respective strategies and objectives.
Through collaboration, we encourage open  communication and alignment, empowering  our partners to meet specific needs while  offering valuable business insights.
Our commitment to society extends beyond  our business boundaries.
We engage at  multiple levels, actively participating in local  community initiatives and collaborating  with universities and research institutes to  foster innovation and knowledge exchange.
Through partnerships with implementing  agencies and civil society, we aim to  address societal challenges by developing  effective solutions.
Government and regulatory bodies are  important in overseeing the smooth  operations of our business.
Understanding  and complying with regulatory standards  are crucial for upholding our reputation  and fulfilling the expectations of our  stakeholders.
Applicable regulations are  seamlessly integrated into our business  practices and procedures, becoming  intrinsic to our daily operations.
Government and Regulatory Bodies Business Partners Communities and Society Delivering Value  Compliance with  regulations and laws,  transparency in operations,  and timely reporting  Cooperation in regulatory  matters, adherence to  safety and environmental  standards, and contribution  to local development  Implementation of  government schemes  Growth and   expansion strategy  Ethical business conduct  Transparent disclosures  Timely payments  Regular engagement,   Fair wages  Inclusive, transparent,  equitable, and secure  working environment  Prospects for  professional advancement Efficiently implementing government schemes.
Defining clear accountability for statutory compliance,  monitor licenses, and generate MIS reports.
Strictly complying with relevant rules and regulations, and  coordinating with regulatory bodies.
Clarifying roles, updating license details, and conducting  periodic audits for compliance.
Meeting government and statutory expectations through  open communication and accurate reporting.
Providing training via SAMPARK app, Field Officers, and  Divisional Office meetings for business partners.
Ensuring timely payments to partners for  regular engagements.
Maintaining alignment with organisational vision and  mission through Joint Operating Agreements.
Fostering regular interactions via online and offline  channels for effective communication and empowerment.
Maintaining continuous involvement with community  projects to ensure sustained impact and relevance.
Conducting campaigns that address specific community  needs, focusing on enhancing local development  and engagement.
Partnering with universities and institutes to leverage  academic resources for community benefits, promoting joint  initiatives that combine education and practical application.
Committing resources to support social welfare and  community development projects that align with our vision  for societal improvement.
Working closely with local community leaders and  organisations to align our efforts with the needs and  goals of the communities we serve.
Expectations Channel of Communication Meetings, online government portals, physical  submission of applications/returns and so on Physical meetings, online meetings,  mails and calls  Physical meetings, online meetings,  community engagement programmes  SDGsFrequency of Communication Need-based Continuous Need-based Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 042 043  Governance Upholding highest  Governance Standards At IndianOil, we remain committed to upholding the highest standards  of integrity and transparency to ensure accountability of our operations.
It enables us to maximise value creation for diverse stakeholders  including employees, contractors, shareholders, vendors, customers  and community .
This dedication to excellence nurtures trust, builds  enduring relationships and ensures our readiness to meet objectives by  consistently embracing the best practices.
Approaching Strategy with Forward- thinking Guidance We place high value on visionary leadership  and excellent corporate governance.
The  Board of Directors greatly influences  our strategic direction, ethical approach  and efficient decision-making.
For us to  effectively integrate strategic initiatives, risk  management, performance optimisation  and sustainable development into our  operations, critical decisions must be  made using independent and well- informed judgement.
Cultivating a Strong Organisational  Culture We understand that having a strong  corporate culture is essential to our  success.
The Board plays a critical role  in defining our strategic objectives, core  values, vision and mission, which, in  turn, shapes our culture.
Establishing an  environment that prioritises accountability,  morality and honesty gives us more power  as a forward-thinking business entity.
Our  ability to take advantage of new market  opportunities and uphold a governance  framework that consistently generates  value for all stakeholders is made possible  by our strong cultural heritage.
Chairman with IndianOil workforce at Hubli Depot, Karnataka Chairman with Team Aviation at Meenambakkam AFS, Chennai Building Trust Through Governance We have implemented a comprehensive  Code of Conduct (CoC) for Board Members  & Senior Management Personnel.
This CoC  provides a guiding framework highlighting  the importance of personal and professional  integrity, honesty and ethical conduct.
Promoting Integrity and  Accountability Our Whistleblower Policy is a fundamental  part of our commitment to integrity and  ethical behaviour .
The policy encourages  employees to act in alignment with our  core values.
It empowers individuals within  the organisation to report any instances  of misconduct, offering protection against  victimisation and ensuring that concerns  can be raised without fear or hesitation.
Chairman with Defence Officials at Thoise AFS in Nubra, Ladakh Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 044 045  In a left-to-right sequence Anuj Jain N Senthil Kumar Alok Sharma Arvind Kumar Sujoy ChoudhuryShrikant Madhav VaidyaV Satish KumarRashmi Govil Director (Finance) Director (Pipelines) Director (Research  and Development) Director  (Refineries) Director (Planning and  Business Development)  ChairmanDirector (Marketing)Director  (Human Resources) Energised Leadership Team Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 046 047  Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Anuj Jain V Satish Kumar Alok Sharma Sujoy Choudhury Rashmi Govil Arvind Kumar Chairman Director (Finance)  w.e.f.
09.10.2023 Director (Marketing) Director (Research  and Development)  w.e.f.
16.01.2024 Director (Planning and  Business Development) Director  (Human Resources)  w.e.f.
15.03.2024 Director  (Refineries)  w.e.f.
17.07.2024 Board Profile Progressing with  Positive Energy At  IndianOil, governance is built on the principles of  transparency, honesty and accountability.
We are dedicated to  upholding the highest ethical standards to create value for all  stakeholders.
By earning trust and adhering to regulations, we  ensure alignment with organisational goals and commitment  to societal well-being.
Audit Committee  Risk Management   Committee  Corporate Social  Responsibility  (CSR) & Sustainable  Development Committee Project Evaluation   Committee  LNG Sourcing  Committee (LSC)  Nomination and  Remuneration Committee  Marketing Strategies &  Information Technology  Oversight Committee  Contracts Committee  Stakeholders’  Relationship Committee  Deleasing of Immoveable  Properties Committee  Planning &  Projects Committee Whole Time Directors R LS CD PPN S P MR DCSR C PPLS R M CD PPCSR PPC R M CLS PPCSR S P DCSR N Senthil Kumar Director (Pipelines)  w.e.f.
14.08.2023 PPC C PP A R LS CSR P C PP M N S D Dr Sujata Sharma Sudipta Kumar Ray Krishnan Sadagopan w.e.f.
11.05.2024 Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh Government Nominee Director Dilip Gogoi Lalung Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant Dr Dattatreya Rao   Sirpurker Prasenjit Biswas Independent Directors N MA PS SN CSR R A N A CSR N MR C PPLS Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 048 049  At IndianOil, we   acknowledge that is the outcome of careful  consideration of the relationship  between the capitals that we deploy  and our strategic initiatives.
We  ensure our actions are in line  with our vision and commitments  through careful planning.
In addition, our initiatives also  contribute to the United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs) that we aspire to achieve  making a meaningful impact on   multiple stakeholders.
Sustainable Development Goals We are committed to addressing societal and environmental challenges,  striving for an inclusive, peaceful, and prosperous world.
Our efforts align with  all seventeen SDGs, with a primary focus on eleven where we believe we can  make the most significant impact, ensuring sustainable progress for our local  communities and the environment.
SDG 3   (Establish Good Health and Well-Being) We ensure the health and safety of our local communities and workforce through  responsible operations, well-defined safety management systems, clear roles and  responsibilities; and various occupational Health and Safety initiatives.
SDG 5   (Establish Gender Equality) Our organisation is dedicated to promote inclusivity, gender  equality, and ensuring a safe, equal opportunities workplace  for all employees.
SDG 9   (Increase Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) Our focus is on innovation and resilient infrastructure for  sustainable industrialisation, with ongoing investments in refinery  and pipeline technology upgrades.
SDG 6   (Improve Clean Water and Sanitation) We aim to provide clean water and sanitation, especially  in rural areas, and optimise water use through  conservation efforts.
SDG 7   (Grow Affordable and Clean Energy) We are dedicated to providing affordable,  reliable, and sustainable energy solutions while  expanding our clean energy product portfolio.
SDG 8   (Create Decent Work and  Economic Growth)  We persist in generating jobs, fuelling economic  growth, and cultivating fair work environment, with  decades-long contributions as a Maharatna PSU.
SDG 12   (Influence Responsible Consumption and Production) We are heavily committed to advocating sustainable  consumption and production, adhering to regulations, and  promoting sustainability throughout our supply chain.
SDG 17   (Build Partnerships for the Goals) We aim to amplify SDG achievement through strategic  partnerships, collaborating with NGOs, academia,  and industry players, for impactful outcomes.
SDG 13   (Organise Climate Action)  We focus on executing targeted strategies  to tackle climate change, minimising our  environmental impact by curbing emissions  through various measures.
SDG 15   (Advance Life On Land)  We are dedicated to conserving terrestrial  ecosystems, managing forests responsibly, and  halting land degradation, with ongoing greenbelt  development and tree-planting efforts.
SDG 16   (Guarantee Peace, Justice, and  Strong Institutions) We support peaceful, inclusive societies with strong  institutions and justice, maintaining the highest standards  of accountability and integrity in our operations.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 052 053  SDGs linkage Capital As India’s largest refiner, with strategic  presence and access to high-potential  markets, our stellar performances are  fuelled by a judicious and disciplined  financial management strategy.
Our  unflinching commitment to maximise  returns from investments ensures  efficient resource allocation and agile  execution.
Considering the dynamics of  an evolving energy market, we continue  to emphasise on energy efficiency, with  robust revenues and growth in profits.
Material Issues  Market Volatility Economic Performance Business Ethics  and Accountability IndianOil LPG Bottling plant in Digboi, Assam Revenue from Operations Profit After Tax Market Capitalisation   (as on March 31, 2024) Net Worth  ROE K8,66,345 Crore K39,619 Crore K2,36,884 Crore K1,76,715 Crore 22.42% Input Equity Share Capital 22-23 13,772 13,77223-24 (H in Crore) Other Equity 1,20,986 162,943 (H in Crore) 22-23 23-24 Long-term borrowings 73,985 57,744 (H in Crore) 22-23 23-24 Output Revenue from Operations 22-23 22-23 9,34,953 20,985 8,66,345 68,097 23-24 23-24 (H in Crore) Operating Cash Flow (H in Crore) Market Capitalisation * 1,10,004 2,36,884 (H in Crore) 22-23 23-24 EBITDA 28,487 74,182 (H in Crore) 22-23 23-24 PAT 8,242 39,619 (H in Crore) 22-23 23-24 * As on March 31, 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 054 055  Key Ratios Value created and distributed among stakeholders Income Tax Economic Value  Distributed Employee Benefits Economic Value  Retained Expenditure on CSR Interest to Lenders Dividend Payout   to Shareholders K88,950  Crore Payment to providers  of capital Economic Value  Generated K1,32,061  Crore K43,111   Crore K11,080  Crore K457.71   Crore K7,328   Crore K11,017   Crore K12,725   Crore Debt-Equity Ratio 22-23 0.98 0.6623-24 Ratio (x) Return on Assets 22-23 1.96 8.6623-24 Ratio (%) Return on Average  Capital Employed 22-23 6.19 20.1723-24 Ratio (%) Interest Service   Coverage Ratio (Times) 22-23 3.39 9.0823-24 Ratio Return on   Average Net Worth 22-23 7.08 29.7523-24 Ratio (%) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 056  (as on March 31, 2024) REFINERY   (Location) CAPACITY IN MMTPA (As on 31st March 2024) Digboi 0.65 Guwahati 1.20 Barauni 6.00 Gujarat (Koyali) 13.70 Haldia 8.00 Bongaigaon 2.70 Mathura 8.00 Panipat 15.00 Paradip 15.00 IOC 70.25 CPCL 10.50 IOC+CPCL 80.75 Details of Group Refineries Operating Pipelines S.  NO.
PIPELINES LENGTH  (KM) INSTALLED CAPACITY  (MMTPA/MMSCMD) A Product Pipelines A1 Product Pipelines excluding LPG and Dedicated ATF 1 KAPL Koyali Ahmedabad Pipeline 79 1.10 2 KJPPL Koyali Jaipur Panipat Pipeline 1644 5.00 3 KDPL Koyali Dahej Pipeline 197 2.60 4 KRPL Koyali Ratlam Pipeline 265 2.00 5 BKPL Barauni Kanpur Pipeline 1227 3.50 6 HMRPL Haldia Mourigram Rajbandh Pipeline 277 1.35 7 HBPL Haldia Barauni Pipeline 526 1.25 8 GSPL Guwahati Siliguri Pipeline 435 1.40 9 PBPL Panipat Bhatinda Pipeline 219 3.00 10 PRPL Panipat Rewari Pipeline 155 2.10 11 PAJPL Panipat Ambala Jalandhar Pipeline 495 3.50 12 PDPL Panipat Delhi Pipeline 189 3.00 13 MDPL Mathura Delhi Pipeline 147 3.70 14 MAGPL Mathura Agra Gawria Pipeline 311 4.00 15 MBPL Mathura Bharatpur Pipeline 21 1.20 16 CTMPL Chennai Trichy Madurai Pipeline 683 3.90 17 CBPL Chennai Bangalore Pipeline 290 2.45 18 PRRPL Paradip Raipur Ranchi Pipeline 1073 5.00 19 PHPL Paradip Hyderabad Pipeline 993 4.50 20 PSHPL Paradip Somnathpur Haldia Pipeline 341 4.60 21 KASPL Koyali Ahmednagar Solapur Pipeline 752 5.00 22 18" HBPL  Conversion  Project Haldia Barauni Pipeline 10 - Total (A1) 10329 64.15 A2 Dedicated ATF Pipelines 23 PBPL ATF Panipat Bijwasan ATF line 111 1.00 24 Chennai ATF Chennai Meenambakkam ATF Pipeline 95 0.18 25 Bengaluru ATF Devangonthi Devanhalli Pipeline 36 0.66 26 Kolkata ATF Kolkata ATF Pipeline 27 0.20 27 Lucknow ATF Lucknow ATF Pipeline 5.9 0.21                                                        Total (A2) 275 2.25 A3 LPG Pipelines 28 PJPL Panipat Jalandhar Pipeline 280 0.70 29 PHBMPL Paradip Haldia Barauni Motihari  Pipeline 1707 3.50                                                      Total (A3) 1987 4.20                                                        Total (A1+A2+A3) 12591 70.60 Locations are indicative Pipelines Projects S.NO.
Pipelines Length(KM) Capacity(MMTPA/ MMSCMD) Ongoing Product Pipelines Projects Excluding LPG 1 Vijaywada-Hyderabad Section of PHPL 225.70 0.00 2 Conversion of 18" HBPL Crude oil Pipeline to  Product Pipeline 14.70 3.40 3 Addition in product PL length upon conversion  of crude oil PL to product PL 499.00 0.00  4 Product pipeline from CBR to Asanur 139.00 4.50 5 ATF Pipeline Jatni Terminal to Bhubaneswar AFS 19.00 0.12 6 Re-routing of BKPL for connectivity to  proposed terminal at Mirzapur 12.00 0.00 7 Branch Pipeline on PRRPL to Meramandalli CUF 21.51 0.00 8 ATF Pipeline from JNPT to Navi Mumbai  International Airport 22.00 4.45 9 Extension of Asanur-Sankari Section of CTMPL  up to Irugur 120.00 0.00 10 Devangonthi-Chitradurga Pipeline 234.00 2.60 11 Deduction in length upon decommissioning of  Rajbandh-Jasidih section of 12" HBPL -155.00 - Total Product Pipelines excluding LPG 1151.91 15.07 Ongoing LPG Pipelines Projects 1 Extension of PJPL from Jalandhar to Goindwal  Sahib BP 85.00 0.50 2 Laying of additional spur line between IPPL  Terminal at Haldia and PHBMPL Haldia 1.20 - Total LPG Pipelines 86.20 0.50 Ongoing Crude Pipelines Projects 1 Reduction in length after conversion of crude  oil PL to product PL -499 0 2 Augmentation of SMPL crude oil pipeline  systems for J18 0.00 10.00 3 New Mundra Panipat Crude Oil Pipeline  for P-25 1033.00 17.50 Total Crude Pipelines 534.00 27.50 Ongoing Gas Pipelines Projects 1 Ennore-Tuticorin-BengaIuru R LNG Pipeline 360.00 1.00 2 Hazaribagh-Ranchi RLNG Pipeline 67.83 1.00 Total Gas Pipelines 427.83 2.00 Summary  Ongoing Liquid and Gas Pipeline Projects 1 Total Product Pipelines excluding LPG 1151.91 15.07 MMTPA 2 Total LPG Pipelines 86.2 0.50 MMTPA 3 Total Crude Oil Pipelines 534 27.5 MMTPA 4 Total Gas Pipelines 427.83 2 MMSCMD Cumulative 2199.94 43.07 MMTPA   2 MMSCMD Operating Pipelines S.  NO.
PIPELINES LENGTH  (KM) INSTALLED CAPACITY  (MMTPA/MMSCMD) B Crude Oil Pipelines 1 SMPL Salaya Mathura Pipeline 2663 25.00 2 MPPL Mundra Panipat Pipeline 1194 8.40 3 PHBPL Paradip Haldia Barauni Pipeline 1965 20.40                                                        Total 5822 53.80 Cumulative (Crude + Product) 18413 124.40 C Gas Pipelines 1 DPPL Dadri Panipat  R LNG Pipeline 141 9.50 2 ETBPL Ennore-Tuticorn-Bengaluru Pipeline 1084 34.00 3 DKPL Dahej Koyali R LNG Pipeline 106 5.23                                                         Total 1331 48.73 IndianOil Pipelines Network (Crude, Product and Gas) 19744 124.40 MMTPA and  48.73 MMSCMD Map not to scale Map not to scale Locations are indicative (as on March 31, 2024) Capital Over the years, our best-in-class  infrastructure and assets have  empowered us to grow exponentially  and become one of India’s largest  customer-facing brands and a reputed  name in the Fortune ‘Global 500’  rankings.
From managing gigantic  oil refineries to maintaining an  enormous petroleum pipeline network  and throughput, we are bolstering  our capacities to undertake further  exploration and production activities  nationally and internationally.
SDGs linkage Material Issues  Product Stewardship Customer Satisfaction  and Brand Loyalty Sustainable Supply Chain IndianOil Guwahati Terminal Refineries Pipeline Network Refineries Our legacy dates back to over 100 years.
With the Digboi Refinery commissioned  in 1,901, we have amassed an extensive  experience in all aspects of petroleum  refining.
Our refining capacity stands at  70.25 MMTPA, the largest among Indian  refining companies, with plans for further  enhancement to 87.9 MMTPA progressively  by 2026.
We lead the industry with a diverse  portfolio of refining technologies, ensuring  compliance with environmental regulations  and prioritising workplace safety.
Our  commitment to growth is underscored by  ambitious plans for capacity augmentation  and quality upgradation.
9 19,500+ Km Marketing touchpoints 61,000+ IndianOil Mathura Refinery Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 058 059  Expansion of Guwahati  Refinery from 1.0  MMTPA to 1.2 MMTPA An investment proposal for the  expansion of Guwahati Refinery from  1.0 MMTPA to 1.2 MMTPA, along with  the installation of Catalytic Reforming  Unit (CRU) and associated facilities was  approved on May 19, 2021.
Under the approved project, a revamp of  crude oil distillation unit (CDU) from 1.0  MMTPA to 1.2 MMTPA has been carried  out successfully.
The revamped CDU  has been commissioned on November  18, 2023.
In CDU revamp, two new heat  exchangers installation, NSF Splitter  and Stabiliser trays modification,  Stabiliser Re-boiler replacement and  few Heat Exchanger modifications  were carried out.
Refining capacity Refinery throughput 70.25 MMTPA  73.308 MMT  US$ 12.05   per barrel  104.5%   GRM  Refinery capacity utilisation Processed the highest ever crude  throughput of 73,308 TMT in 2023- 24, surpassing the previous best of  72,408 TMT in 2022-23.
Panipat Naphtha Cracker (PNC)  achieved the highest ever Naphtha  processing of 3,111.8 TMT, surpassing  the previous record of 3,027 TMT    in 2018-19.
Refineries achieved 97.3%  Operational Availability   (OA) in 2023-24.
Achieved highest ever capacity  utilisation of 104.5 % in 2023-24,  exceeding the previous best of  103.8% in 2018-19.
On the Energy Conservation front,  the refineries recorded MBN of  68.7 in 2023-24 as compared to  68.0 in 2022-23.
Overall, the Refineries and  Panipat Naphtha Cracker (PNC)  implemented 187 energy saving  schemes with a benefit ~3,59,896  SRFT, or 1.15 MMT of equivalent CO2  emissions reduction in the 2023-24.
The SRFT benefit achieved has been  the best so far .
Highest ever crude throughput of  84,950 TMT in 2023-24 by Group  Refineries, surpassing the previous  best of 83,724 TMT in 2022-23.
Achieved the best Energy Intensity  Index (EII) of 96.0 that is same as 2022- 23 and lower than the previous best  of 97.9 achieved in 2018-19.
Performance Highlights IndianOil Guwahati Refinery Throughput of The multi-product cross-country  pipelines, such as Koyali-Ratlam  Product Pipeline (KRPL) and Mundra  - Delhi Pipeline (MDPL), now efficiently  transport Automatic transmission  fluid (ATF) with Low Sulphur Aviation  Turbine Fuel (LS-ATF) interface plugs,  eliminating Superior Kerosene Oil  (SKO) generation entirely.
Achieved the historic first of delivering  High-Speed Diesel (HSD) via Gujarat  State Petronet Ltd (GSPL) to Bongaigaon  Refinery and transporting JP-5  through Chennai Bangalore Pipeline,  sandwiched between ATF, resulting in  significant cost savings.
Additionally,  the movement of Light Cycle Oil (LCO)  via Paradip-Haldia-Barauni Pipeline  (PHBPL) for reprocessing at the  Haldia Refinery showcases innovative  operational initiatives, leading to  substantial cost savings against coastal  movement expenses.
Maiden MS batch transportation  through Paradip-Hyderabad Pipeline  (PHPL) from Visakhapatnam to  Atchutapuram facilitated the  utilisation of Visakhapatnam  tanks for floating storage.
This  development sets the stage  for regular MS batches from  Paradip through PHPL upon  the commissioning of the  Hyderabad Terminal.
Successful trials for the unmanned  LPG pipeline delivery stations at  P JPL Jalandhar and incidental  risk assessment for ATF  transportation in multi-product  pipelines carrying Ethanol Blended  Motor Spirit (EBMS) at Mathura- Agra-Gawria Pipeline (MAGPL)  demonstrate our  commitment to  operational excellence and safety  enhancement measures.
Highest ever liquid throughput   achieved in 2023-24 Capacity of crude oil and   product pipelines 95.80 MMT 124.40 MMTPA  Pipelines  Operating one of the world’s largest oil  pipeline networks, we manage 19,500+  Km of crude oil, petroleum product  and gas pipelines, with an annual  throughput capacity of 124.4 MMT of  oil and 48.73 MMSCM per day of gas.
In  2023-24, we added 2,180 Km of pipeline  length, continuing our commitment to  network expansion.
For crude pipeline 51.81 MMT For product pipeline 43.99 MMT For gas pipeline 3,717 MMSCM  Market share in country’s  pipeline network Crude pipeline 53% Product pipeline 53% Gas pipeline 6% Performance Highlights Underground Pipeline being laid in southern part of India Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 060 061  Marketing Network Infrastructure Retail Outlets (added 1,260 in 2023-24) CNG stations (added 322 in 2023-24) CBG stations (added 40 in 2023-24) LPG bottling plants (added 03 in 2023-24) SERVO’s highest ever sales volume   (marking a growth of 3.7% in 2023-24)  Lube blending plants in India EV charging stations   (including 91 Battery Swapping Stations) LPG distributors  Countries of presence for SERVO Aviation fuelling stations   (added 1 in 2023-24) 37,472 2,110 85  99 728 TMT 11 9,059 12,880 42 129 Marketing With a marketing and distribution network  spanning 61,000+ touchpoints, IndianOil is  a key player in Asia’s petroleum industry.
From the Himalayas to Kerala’s sun-soaked  shores, our fuel stations are strategically  located across diverse terrains.
Supported  by bulk storage terminals, LPG bottling  plants, and lubricant blending facilities, we  ensure a seamless supply chain nationwide.
Renowned surveys consistently recognise  IndianOil as the dominant energy brand,  underscoring our commitment to high- quality products and services over four  decades.
We prioritise customer experience  through automation, modernisation  and digital transformation initiatives,  ensuring enhanced services and sustained  customer loyalty.
154% capex achievement with the  highest-ever capex of J 11,574 Crore  by Marketing Division during 2023-24.
Successful implementation of Ujjwala  2.0 extension and engagement in  areas with low LPG penetration.
Commissioning of 1,260 new Retail  Outlets, 322 CNG stations and 3,601  EV charging points.
Collaborations with auto influencers,  release of promotional videos and  onboarding of brand ambassadors,  such as John Abraham for SERVO  lubricants promotion.Introduction the of in-house expertise  in Advanced Data Analytics within the  Marketing Division for data-driven  decision-making.
Performance Highlights A Channel Partner & her team at an IndianOil Retail Outlet in Rajasthan Sales in 2023-24 6.5 MMT Natural Gas Through relentless efforts to enhance  infrastructure, extend supply networks  and advocate LNG utilisation, we have  emerged as a key player in the natural gas  domain.
Our substantial market presence  solidifies our position as the second-largest  player in India’s natural gas sector , as we  proactively fortify our foothold, along the  entire value chain.
Our strategy involves amplifying LNG  procurement, strengthening infrastructure  through import terminals and expanding  pipelines and city gas distribution grids.
Additionally, we pledge to offer convenient  ‘LNG at the doorstep’ services, ensuring  seamless access to dependable and eco- friendly energy solutions for our customers.
Operated 5 MMTPA  capacity LNG  terminal at Kamarajar Port, Ennore  through IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd. Commenced natural gas  supplies to Barauni and Paradip  Refinery in 2023-24.
Started LNG sales from the first LNG  retail outlet located at Sriperumbudur  since June 2023.
Achieved a milestone of 6.5 MMT gas  sales (including captive consumption)  in 2023-24, marking 49% growth over  the previous year .
Invested US$ 71.41 Million in 2023- 24, producing 1.59 MM Tonnes  of natural gas.
Focused on expanding LNG stations  for long-haul transport, facilitating  a sustainable shift towards a  low-carbon future.
Signed 2 MMTPA of new long term  LNG sourcing agreements with  international suppliers in 2023-24,  ensuring supply security with  a  diversified portfolio.
Appointed as an aggregator of HPHT  gas for the fertiliser sector by the  Ministry of Chemical & Fertiliser in  the year 2022.
Bidding aggressively  in the HP-HT tenders in 2023-24,  IndianOil successfully procured  ~5.2 MMSCMD  of natural gas for  fertiliser customers.
Enhanced gas infrastructure through  the establishment of LNG terminals  and gas pipelines.
In Small Scale LNG, recorded the  highest-ever sales of 150.62 TMT    in 2023-24, marking a remarkable  year-on-year growth of 125%.
Performance Highlights Zakum Central Super Complex (ZCSC), one of the main crude oil processing centres at UAE Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 062 063  Petrochemicals To seize the burgeoning opportunities  in India’s petrochemical market, we are  strategically expanding our footprint  both domestically and internationally.
We  aim to optimise the hydrocarbon value  chain by leveraging our existing refinery  infrastructure.
With a dedicated Strategic  Business Unit (SBU) and robust logistics,  we are delivering reliable solutions to  customers worldwide.
Petrochemical sales in 2023-24 3.1 MMT Implemented rigorous quality  assurance protocols for all  petrochemical products, ensuring  compliance with standards and  customer satisfaction.
Plan to increase Petrochemical  Intensity Index from 6.1% to 15% by  2030, with an additional investment of  J 1,20,000 Crore in the petrochemical  sector .
Projects worth J  30,000  Crore under various stages of  implementation and J 90,000 Crore  under feasibility study.
Established partnerships with  reputed recyclers to ensure the  procurement of quality-compliant  recyclates, meeting stringent quality  standards set by brand owners,  OEMs and consumers.
Focused on value addition and forward  integration in the polyester value  chain, consolidating existing business  activities, while exploring niche and  specialty segments for growth.
Launched ‘CYCLOPLAST’ brand for  polymer recyclates, supporting a  circular economy and reducing  our  carbon footprint.
Implemented initiatives such as  ‘Unbottled’ garments from recycled  PET bottles, showcasing our  commitment to sustainability and  environmental responsibility.
We are positioned as India’s second  largest Petrochemicals Producer in  India, targeting capacity expansion to  13.6 MMT by 2030.
Undertook various efficiency  measures, such as single-colour  printing on bags and reducing  polymer usage, leading to significant  recurring savings.
Performance Highlights Warehouse at Panipat Petrochemical Marketing Complex Exploration and Production Our business development initiatives are  fuelled by emerging opportunities and our  vision to become ‘The Energy of India’ ,  ‘A globally admired Company’.
We are  focusing more on expanding our presence  in the entire hydrocarbon industry to boost  energy security and reduce spending on  foreign exchange.
Upstream operations,  which offer higher risks but also greater  rewards, are central to this initiative.
We are engaged in exploration and  production activities both domestically  and internationally, collaborating with  consortium partners.
Currently, we are actively pursuing  operations in 18 domestic and 11  overseas assets, spanning various  Domestic assets   Overseas assets 18 11 Gas Collecting Station (GCS), Bokaro- a major production installation for processing of Coal Bed Methane gas countries including the USA, Canada,  Oman, the UAE, Venezuela, Libya, Gabon,  Nigeria and Russia.
During the year , the Company’s domestic  acreage got fortified further on being  declared as Successful Resolution Applicant  for the acquisition of Mercator Petroleum  Limited (MPL) by the National Company Law  Tribunal under the Corporate Insolvency  Resolution Process.
Looking ahead, the Company aims to raise  its upstream integration ratio primarily  through investments in domestic assets,  while also tapping into suitable overseas  opportunities, especially in potential oil  and gas blocks.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 064 065  Capital Our extraordinary  performances are fuelled  by ahead-of-the-curve  innovation and a relentless  dedication to adopt  emerging technologies.
Our  engineering excellence and  ability to unlock growth  potential in the hydrocarbon  value chain enable us to  deliver enduring value to the  nation.
SDGs linkage Material Issues  Digitisation Circularity and  Waste Management Product Stewardship IndianOil laying thrust on Alternative Sources of Energy Patents filed till March 31, 2024 Patents filed in 2023-24 Expenditure in R&D 1,736 90 J 946 Crore R&D Team Members 454 During 2023-24, key developments  included the successful commissioning  of the Catalyst Manufacturing Unit  (CMU) at the Panipat Refinery and the  installation of a 300 kTA indDSK unit  at the Paradip Refinery for Pipeline  Compatible Kerosene (PCK) production.
In pipeline research, our in-house  developed IPIG tools enabled a record  2,711 Km of inline pipeline inspections.
In Alternative and Renewable Energy,  our achievements comprised  the demonstration of ‘eCO 2Sorb’  technology at the TFL CO 2 capture  plant, yielding a 21% energy efficiency  boost post-retrofitting; the operational  commencement of a 200 TPD paddy  straw-based plant in Gorakhpur for  CBG production; and the successful field  trials of ‘StubVorous’ microbial blend for  crop residue decomposition, endorsed  by District Agriculture Departments.
The establishment of our R&D Centre in 1972 at Faridabad, Haryana demonstrated  our pioneering spirit in India's oil industry.
From building the super brand ‘SERVO’  to advancing technologies in petroleum refining, we have commercialised numerous  innovations over the preceding three decades.
Our focus extends to emerging sectors  such as Solar Energy, Hydrogen and Bioenergy.
Our state-of-the-art facilities support  ground-breaking research, enabling us to file over 90 patents in the current fiscal year .
Key highlights Research and Development Research & Development Centre at Faridabad, Haryana Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 066 067  Since the launch of E20 Petrol (20% Ethanol  Blended Petrol) by the Honourable Prime  Minister on February 6, 2023, we have  initiated the sale of E20 at select Retail  Outlets and expanded the retail network to  offer E20 Petrol in almost all States/Union  Territories.
As on March 31, 2024, we have  made E20 Fuel available at over 4,700 Retail  Outlets pan-India to cater to the demand  of E20 compatible vehicles.
Refining Technologies   & Catalysts Alternative Energy Applied Metallurgy   and Tribology Petrochemicals   & Polymers Bio-Energy IndS_ UP StartUp Scheme Pipeline Maintenance   & Inspection Nanotechnology Key Focus Areas Lubricants Fuels & Additives E-Mobility We are achieving the following sustainability objectives with E20 fuel blends: Ethanol, being a biofuel derived from  renewable plant sources, reduces reliance  on fossil fuels and lowers greenhouse gas  emissions compared to regular petrol.
E20 promotes cleaner burning, resulting  in fewer harmful pollutants like carbon  monoxide being released from vehicles.
During  2023-24, 255 TMT of E20 fuel blend was sold, substituting approximately H 749 Crore worth of MS with ethanol,  thereby creating a positive impact on the environment.
The ethanol blending percentage achieved in 2023-24 is 12.68%.
To promote the use of E20 Fuel Blend among consumers and industries, we conduct informative public awareness  campaigns to educate the customers about the environmental and economic benefits of E20.
At the retail level, E20 was  promoted through special branding of dispensing units, display of artwork on hoardings and standees at E20 Retail Outlets  and special sales campaigns offering 2X XtraRewards loyalty point benefits.
Reduced greenhouse gas emissions Improved air quality E20 Fuel Blend During the year , we took significant strides  in product innovation and sustainability  across various segments.
As part of the  Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, we launched  India’s First Reference Fuel on October  20th, 2023, setting a new benchmark  in the industry.
In the lubricants segment, we showcased our  commitment to innovation and sustainability  through several notable initiatives.
We  became the first Indian Company to introduce  FIM Category 2 Race fuel, named ‘STORM  - Ultimate Racing Fuel’, catering to the high- performance racing segment.
SERVO Hypersport F5, a fully synthetic  premium engine oil for high-end  motorcycles, and SERVO Grease Miracle,  a versatile grease formulated to meet the  demand of EP grease across automotive,  industrial and defence applications,  underlines our focus on meeting  market demands, while aligning with  sustainability goals.
Innovative and Sustainable  Products Supporting Future Mobility with  Hydrogen-Based Solutions The introduction of India's first green hydrogen fuel cell buses further underscores our  commitment to sustainable transportation.
This initiative is the first of its kind in India,  where Green hydrogen is dispensed at a high pressure of 350 bar to power fuel cell buses,  highlighting our dedication to innovative and eco-friendly mobility solutions.
Partnerships   and Collaborations To know more,  scan the QR code To know more,  scan the QR code Our initiatives in the hydrogen-based  solutions space are overseen by our R&D  department.
Additionally, we leverage  partnerships and collaborations to enhance  our Intellectual Capital and market  competitiveness.
In the battery space, we have formed  a joint venture with Phinergy Ltd.,  Israel for stationery and automotive  applications through Al-air battery  technology.
Additionally, collaborations  with companies such as Sun Mobility Pte  Ltd., Singapore, Singapore and Panasonic  Energy Company Limited, Japan for battery  swapping and battery manufacturing   businesses, respectively demonstrate our  commitment to innovation and strategic  partnerships for business growth and  market leadership.
IndianOil Battery Swapping Point in  association with Sun Mobility Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 068 069  Digitalisation At IndianOil, digital innovation is at the heart  of our journey towards customer-centric  solutions.
Through initiatives such as ePIC,  our electronic Platform for customers,  we ensure seamless transactions for  millions of households and businesses.
Our XTRAREWARDS programme has seen  remarkable growth, now serving 3.3 Crore  customers.
We are also driving operational  efficiency with transformative projects  such as the Common LPG Data Platform,  streamlining subsidy payments.
Recognised for our digital advancements,  IndianOil was honoured at the CII Total  Cost Management Awards for our project  ePIC.
Looking ahead, our multi-year  digital transformation programme, Project  i-DRIVE, continues to drive value creation,  with investments exceeding H 700 Crore  With a robust cyber ecosystem in place,  IndianOil remains committed to leveraging  the expanding digital landscape to optimise  operations and enhance stakeholder value.
Customers of   XTRAREWARDS Programme  (As on March 31, 2024) Investments in Project i-DRIVE 3.3  Crore J 700+   Crore  To know more,  scan the QR code Green Solutions On January 1, 2024, we introduced  DuraPack, a pioneering 25 kg Bitumen  packaging solution that not only marks a  breakthrough in the market, but also offers  a user-friendly and cost-effective solution.
We have introduced ‘Unbottled’ garments,  made from recycled PET bottles, for our  fuel station attendants and LPG delivery  personnel, along with retail sales for  employees and the public.
This sustainable  initiative reduces the import burden of fossil  feedstock and lowers carbon footprint  significantly.
In line with our commitment  to Circular Economy and Plastics Neutrality,  we have launched CYCLOPLAST, a brand  of polymer recyclates, collaborating with  recyclers nationwide.
CYCLOPLAST adheres  to high-quality standards, assurance, and  traceability demands from brand owners,  OEMs, and consumers.
This move supports  our dedication to promoting environmental  responsibility.
A 10 KTPA Capacity  Green Hydrogen Plant  is being set up at the  Panipat Refinery on BOO/ BOOT basis for the period  of 25 years.
BOO/BOOT  operator selection and  implementation through  open competitive  bidding process is  has already been initiated.
Chairman, with Director (P&BD), launching the ‘Unbottled’ jacket Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 070  Capital SDGs linkage IndianOil - Army Centre of Excellence and Wellness,  Tinsukia, Assam Material Issues  Economic Performance Customer Satisfaction  and Brand Loyalty Community Development CSR Expenditure J 457.71 Crore We cherish an abiding commitment  to fulfil the aspirations of diverse  stakeholders, as we move forward with  agility and positive energy.
To craft a  responsible and sustainable way forward,  we regularly engage with our growing  fraternity of stakeholders, including  regulatory bodies and the government  and incorporate their insights into our  value creation journey.
Chairman handing over an X-ray machine to Chief Minister, Haryana under intensive  TB elimination project  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 072 073  Customers  We provide prompt responses to customer  feedback through SMS, email and toll-free  numbers, ensuring satisfaction through  dedicated complaint handling.
The ‘1906’  emergency helpline ensures swift action  on LPG leakage concerns, while CPGRAMS  and suggestion/complaint books facilitate  grievance resolution.
ePIC Platform  We have implemented various initiatives  to elevate customer experience and  operational efficiency.
Our ‘Easy-Go’  Facility and LPG safety checklist prioritise  safety and convenience.
The integration  with the IndianOil-One App and Customer  Portal streamlines refill booking and  payments.
Contactless delivery and  Delivery Authentication Code (DAC) ensure  secure transactions.
The electronic Platform for IndianOil Customers (ePIC) stands as the cornerstone  of our Enterprise Digital Business Solution, catering comprehensively to the needs  of our Secondary and Tertiary Customers.
Currently, ePIC plays a pivotal role in:  With ePIC rollout to 35,600 plus Retail outlets, the Retail Sales Line of business is  now fully onboarded onto the ePIC (SDMS CRM) platform.
Efforts are underway to  enhance the user experience, exemplified by the launch of the Indane ‘Easy-Go’  Facility for LPG connection transfers.
Ensuring daily  delivery of Indane  LPG Cylinders to over  26 Lakh households.
Generating  1,500 invoices  daily for Lube  Stockists/Dealers.
Facilitating  seamless  transactions of 10.5  Lakh XtraRewards  Loyalty points  for accrual  and redemption.
Successfully  integrating the  Petchem business  vertical into the  ePIC landscape  for end-to-end  digitalisation.
Suppliers and Business Partners We select and evaluate our suppliers and business partners, driven by our commitment  to sustainability and ethical practices.
With fairness and transparency as the bedrock,  we align with government regulations and ensure equal opportunities for all.
Through  competitive tendering and thorough assessments, we uphold the quality, reliability and  cost-effectiveness of our partnerships, while also supporting national socio-economic  interests like SMEs and startups.
Non-compliance with our standards, results in swift and  appropriate action, reinforcing our dedication to maintaining integrity and accountability  across our supply chain.
Quick facts ePIC Platform serves 15  Crore+ LPG customers,  35,000+ retail outlets  and 13,000+ LPG  distributors from  diverse backgrounds.
IndianOil working relentlessly towards  customer delight and satisfaction Investors and Shareholders We prioritise addressing and resolving  the concerns of our valued investors.
It is  essential for us to empower our investors  through prudent financial management,  ensuring that we uphold the trust and  confidence they have placed in us.
We are committed to maintaining constant  communication with our investors, as this  enables us to effectively understand their  expectations and promptly address any  concerns with transparent governance  framework.
This approach underscores  our dedication to ensuring the satisfaction  and confidence of our investors in our  operations and performance.
Total number of shareholders as on  March 31, 2024 J 24.94  Lakh Dividend pay-out ratio 42% Trillion Dollar Company by 2047 One Dividend for 2023-24 J 16,525.87  Crore Market capitalisation as   on March 31, 2024 J 2,36,884  Crore Government and Regulatory Bodies Our strategic focus is on leveraging sound  management principles to capture lucrative  business opportunities.
We plan targets  based on customer needs, existing product  lines, and market potential, balancing risks  and returns.
Engaging consultants and  conducting primary assessments ensure   thorough evaluation of opportunities.
We are  committed to digitalisation and planning the  implementation of Petro-Technical cloud  solutions for efficient E&P management.
With over a century of expertise, robust R&D  capabilities, and extensive infrastructure,  we are dedicated to meeting India’s  energy needs while advancing our green  initiatives to achieve Net-Zero operational  emissions by 2046.
We have incorporated a Wholly-Owned  Subsidiary (WoS) named Terra Clean Ltd.  to focus on low-carbon, innovative, clean  and sustainable energy operations.
We  aim to maintain our status as ‘The Energy  of India ’ and to play a substantial role  in realising India’s vision of becoming   ‘Viksit Bharat @2047’.
Contribution to the Exchequer  J 2,41,629  Crore Local Community We implement our CSR initiatives through  a structured governance framework,  guided by our Sustainability and Corporate  Social Responsibility (S&CSR) Policy and  Guidelines, in alignment with the Companies  Act 2013 and relevant regulations.
With  about ~600 CSR projects conducted  annually, we allocate CSR funds to prioritise  projects benefiting marginalised sections  of society near our installations.
These  initiatives undergo thorough evaluation,  including baseline surveys and stakeholder  consultations, ensuring targeted impact  and alignment with corporate CSR policies.
CSR Beneficiaries 117.66 Lakh CSR projects ~600 Assam Oil College of Nursing in Digboi, Assam Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 074 075  World Environment Day celebrated with the Mission LiFE theme LiFE – Embracing Sustainability,  Empowering the Planet The concept of Lifestyle for the Environment  (LiFE) was introduced by the Prime Minister  at the UN Climate Change Conference  (COP26) in Glasgow on November 1, 2021.
He called upon the global community of  individuals and institutions to drive LiFE  as an international mass movement, which  will be a decisive step towards ‘mindful and  deliberate utilisation, instead of mindless  and destructive consumption’ to protect  and preserve the environment.
Mission LiFE puts individual and collective  duty on everyone to live a life that is in tune  with Mother Earth and does not harm it.
Those who practise such a lifestyle are  recognised as Pro Planet People, under LiFE.
In August 2022, India included LiFE  in its updated Nationally Determined  Contributions (NDCs) submitted to UNFCCC  as: “India will put forward and propagate  a healthy and sustainable way of living,  based on the traditions and values of  conservation and moderation, including  through a mass movement for LiFE –  Lifestyle for the Environment as a key to  combating climate change”.
Mission LiFE aims to encourage  individuals, households and communities  to adopt greener habits and reduce their  environmental impact by focusing on several  key areas such as waste management,  energy conservation, water conservation,  sustainable transportation and green living.
Through this movement, individuals are  encouraged to adopt practices such as  recycling and composting to reduce  waste and conserve energy by using  energy-efficient appliances and adopting  energy-saving habits.
This is achieved by  minimising water usage through water- efficient fixtures and responsible water  management, promoting sustainable  transportation options such as walking,  cycling or using public transport, and  adopting environmentally conscious lifestyle  choices such as using eco-friendly products  and reducing single-use plastics.
Did you know?
India’s per capita carbon  footprint is 60% lower than the  global average.
This is because  our lifestyle is still rooted  in sustainable traditional  practices.
In fact, sustainability  has always been a part of our  tradition, culture and values,  which we need to revive.
Key initiatives  under the  LiFE initiative  include Energy   conservation Adoption of  sustainable  food systems Reduction of  single-use plastics Water   conservation Waste   reduction  Promoting  healthy lifestyles Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 076  Capital Our human assets are the catalysts who  drive our organisation to new heights of  excellence.
We also integrate advanced  technological innovations to upskill  our teams, so that they are adequately  equipped to fulfil their professional  commitments and personal aspirations.
SDGs linkage Material Issues  Economic Performance Customer Satisfaction  and Brand Loyalty Community Development Team IndianOil, the true asset that  catalyses India’s growth Total Employees Occupational Health and Safety Ensuring the safety and well-being of our  employees is crucial to us, during 2023- 24, we implemented various measures  to monitor , improve and maintain a safe  working environment.
Our commitment to employee safety extends  beyond mere compliance with regulations.
Various training programmes and initiatives  have been implemented to educate our  workforce on safety procedures, protocols  and best practices.
These programmes  span a wide range of topics, from safety  leadership to incident investigation  techniques, aimed at equipping our  employees with the necessary skills to  identify hazards, mitigate risks and respond  effectively to emergencies.
30,321 Total Women Employees Attrition rate Total hours of training and skill  development  2,726 1.24% 9,66,239 hours Regular internal and external Health,  Safety, and Environment (HSE) audits are  conducted to identify gaps in safety systems  and ensure compliance with safety protocols  and regulations.
Occupational Health and Safety remains a priority at all IndianOil locations Investment in Training &  Development J 202 Crore Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 078 079  HSE Policy and Initiatives Our well-defined HSE Policy, approved by  the Board, guides us in prioritising safety  as an integral part of efficient business  management.
We adhere to detailed HSE  management systems based on industry  standards and guidelines, ensuring  that health, safety and environmental  concerns are addressed across every  operational aspect.
Training and Development We at IndianOil believe in the leadership  philosophy of  empowering individuals  to take ownership of their tasks and  make a meaningful impact.
We provide  functional, behavioural, statutory and  technical learnings throughout the   year .
The development of various flagship  programmes, designed to promote  leadership qualities at all levels bears  testament to our constant emphasis on  building competencies and enhancing skill  Graduation Ceremony of Aarohi 4.0 & 5.0 at IndianOil Corporate Office, New Delhi Nav Urja Nirman:  Building a Future in  Renewable Energy  Recognising the significance  of transitioning from Oil  and Gas to Renewable  energy, ‘Nav-Urja   Nirman: Building a Future in  Renewable Energy’ is a talent  development intervention  that aims to foster in-house  expertise among junior/mid- level officers to navigate the  complexities of renewable  energy sectors.
The first  Batch of Nav Urja Nirman  was launched on February 26,  2024 at IIT Delhi with 26 Inter  Divisional participants.
sets.The various learning and development  initiatives taken  during the year were: Specialised programmes  • Madhyama  - Mid Career  Training Programme  • Aarohi 6.0 - Women Leadership  Development Programme  Personalised programmes  • Sarathi, One-on-One Executive Coaching  Continuous learning and skill   enhancement  • eLearning ecosystem, Swadhyaya • Harvard ManageMentor® (HMM) Rigorous assessment mechanisms ensure  the effectiveness and impact of these  initiatives, guiding future training strategies.
By nurturing talent and fostering a culture  of learning and development, we strengthen  our position as a leader in the oil and gas  industry while empowering employees  to thrive in their roles and contribute to  organisational success.
Employee Engagement We prioritise employee engagement through  various initiatives, including revamped  Child Care Leave policies and enhanced  medical facilities.
The “4R 4 U” wellness  campaign fosters health and well-being  through diverse activities.
Additionally,  initiatives like eSambandh, an internet- Capacity Building of the Nation Through collaborative partnerships  and talent management efforts, we are  contributing to the development of a  enabled portal, facilitate post-retirement  benefits accessibility and streamline claim  submissions for ex-employees.
These  efforts ensure a seamless transition into  retirement and support ex-employees  in accessing their entitled benefits from  remote locations.
We also emphasise work- life balance, offering Employee Assistance  Programme “Paramarsh” for mental well- being and vibrant township activities for  social engagement.
These measures  underscore our commitment to employee  welfare and engagement, fostering a  supportive and inclusive work environment.
skilled and capable workforce.
By providing  individuals with essential knowledge and  competencies, we are driving positive  change and supporting the nation’s overall  Chairman with IOCians and their children, during the creche inauguration at Delhi State office growth and development.
We facilitated the  execution of a ‘Practitioner-led Strategic  Leadership Module’ for Ministry of Defence  executives, drawing on our best practices.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 080 081  Capital While we continue to expand our  refineries, pipelines and marketing  networks, we are also exploring a  broad spectrum of green transition  pathways.
Our vision aligns with the  nation’s blueprint for a just and equitable  transition to a low-carbon future with  an aim to achieve Net-Zero emissions by  2070.
To strengthen a circular economy,  we are driving resource efficiency and  minimising the impact of our operations  on the natural environment.
Material Issues  Climate Change Adaptation,  Resilience and Transition Managing  Environmental Impact Circularity and  Waste Management SDGs linkage Digboi Centenary Park, Assam Installed capacity   of renewable energy (168 MW of wind |   79 MW of solar PV) Investment on renewables and  greening efforts Avoided/offset 247 MW J 409.5 Crore 4.5 MMT  CO2e emission We have set a target of installing 31 Gigawatts (GW) of renewable  energy capacity.
This includes various sources such as solar , wind and  hydroelectric power .
Our efforts are geared towards diversifying our  energy portfolio.
In line with our commitment to sustainability, we are working  towards achieving a production target of 1 MMT of biogas.
Biogas, derived from organic waste, is a clean and renewable  source of energy that aligns with our environmental goals.
Renewables will play a  pivotal role in our strategy  to achieve ‘Net-Zero’  operational emissions by  2046.
By transitioning to  cleaner energy sources  and implementing energy- efficient practices across  our operations, we aim to  significantly reduce our  carbon footprint over the  coming decades.
Goals By 2030  A Wind Power Plant in Andhra Pradesh Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 082 083  Environmental Performance Our refineries have implemented a  range of measures to effectively control  gaseous emissions.
We employ strategies  such as using low-sulfur fuel oil, utilising  desulphurisation processes for refinery fuel  gas, and utilising tall stacks for improved  dispersion of flue gases.
Additionally, we  integrate advanced process control systems  and employ cutting-edge technologies like  high-efficiency furnaces, ultra-low NOx  burners, and Sulphur Recovery Units to  further minimise emissions.
Our commitment to environmental  stewardship extends to real-time  monitoring of stack emissions, with data  seamlessly updated on to CPCB servers,  ensuring strict compliance with statutory  emission norms.
Continuous emissions  monitoring systems are in place, monitoring  parameters such as SOx, NOx, CO, and  PM, with online connectivity for constant  monitoring and reporting.
To address fugitive emissions, several  of our refineries have adopted closed  systems for LPG loading and implemented  During 2023-24, we  successfully set up two  CBG plants, located  in Gorakhpur, U P and  Hingonia, Rajasthan.
Moreover, we supported  the operational launch  of six additional CBG  plants and issued more  than 650 Letters of  Intent under SATAT.
As  on 31.03.2024, the total  count of commissioned  CBG plants stands at 31. vapor recovery systems for loading MS  and Naphtha.
Moreover , we have installed  Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems  (CEMS) to monitor parameters such as pH,  TSS, COD, and BOD of effluents leaving the  refinery, with online connectivity to CPCB  servers for continuous monitoring.
All IndianOil refineries are certified under  ISO 14064 and ISO 14001 standards.
A  majority of IndianOil’s pipeline terminals  and marketing installations are also  certified under ISO 14001.
Compressed Biogas plant at Hingonia, Jaipur Climate Change Recognising the urgent and extensive  nature of the climate crisis, we are  committed to taking collective action  and adopting sustainable practices to  mitigate its impacts.
We are dedicated to  reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  by transitioning to cleaner , renewable  energy sources, enhancing energy  efficiency, and implementing sustainable  land-use practices.
In our pursuit of sustainable development,  we have initiated various programmes,  including rainwater harvesting, footprint  mapping for water , carbon, and waste,  as well as the deployment of solar  panels and LED lights.
Moreover , we  have undertaken sapling plantations to  contribute to carbon sequestration and  environmental preservation.
Quick facts India’s first green hydrogen fuel cell bus was inaugurated at the India Gate by the  Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas.
This is India’s first initiative, where green  hydrogen is being dispensed at a high pressure of 350 bar to operate fuel cell buses.
Key Focus Areas Improve operational efficiency with  better knowledge management and  enhanced data analytics through  the adoption of state-of-the-art  digitalisation tools Use of nano-technological   interventions for the development of  fuels, lubricants and refinery catalysts  and leverage benefits Support refineries by adopting in-house  refinery process technologies like FCC,  Hydro-Processing and Delayed coking  Optimise bio-energy - second and third  generation bio-fuels, including bio- ethanol and bio-diesel development Reduce greenhouse gas emission  through the development and  adoption of CCUS Plan for using futuristic alternative  energy – Hydrogen, Fuel Cells  and Solar Energy Develop and establish technologies  across the complete value chain of fuels,  chemicals and materials Support the country’s innovation  ecosystem, while keeping the  focus on organisational priorities,  by promoting the IndS-UP StartUp  programme of IndianOil Create low-cost and more resilient  energy infrastructure through advanced  energy storage devices  Develop sustainable petrochemical  processes and catalysts Consolidate existing (fuels, lubricants,  petrochemicals) business by providing  economically viable solutions Achieving Net-Zero Emissions by 2046 We have set a bold target to achieve Net-Zero  operational emissions by 2046.
This ambitious goal  includes both Scope 1 and 2 emissions, with an  estimated budget requirement of H 2.5 Lakh Crore To realise this objective, we are committed to  transparent and accurate accounting of GHG  emissions through regular monitoring, reporting, and  verification.
Our strategy includes reducing Scope 1  and 2 emissions through investments in renewable  energy, energy efficiency measures, compressed  biogas, green hydrogen, CCUS, sapling plantation  initiatives and engagement in carbon markets.
Ensure future readiness through ramp- up of research abilities both in terms  of facilities and manpower to keep  IndianOil ahead of the innovation curve  in India’s Oil and gas Sector Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 084 085  Renewable Energy Mix 2G Ethanol Impact and  Effectiveness 2G Ethanol from agri-waste - India’s waste-to-wealth endeavour, this will a Bolster the production and  usage of biofuels in the country  to reduce import dependence.
Create an end-use for the  agri-crop residue that would  empower farmers by providing  an additional income generation  opportunity for them.
c Employ people involved in  plant operations.
Generate indirect employment  for rice straw cutting,  handling and storage.d b Green Hydrogen In our Research and Development (R&D) Division, we are undertaking projects aimed at advancing green hydrogen technologies.
Our  efforts include setting up pilot plants with a capacity of approximately 1 Tonne/Day capacity pilot plants, by utilising innovative hydrogen  production methods: a  b d c Oxy-Steam Biomass Gasification-based Hydrogen Generation  In collaboration with the IISc, we have successfully completed  a demo run of this technology at a pilot plant with 5 kg/hr  capacity at the IISC campus.
Fuel Cell Bus Performance Evaluation and Field Trials  Through joint endeavours with Tata Motors Ltd, we have  developed and deployed fuel cell buses.
Ongoing field trials are  currently being conducted in the Delhi NCR region under the  supervision of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways  of India (MoRTH).
Type III Composite Cylinder Development   In collaboration with IIT Kharagpur , we have taken significant  strides in developing a 57 litre water capacity Type III  composite cylinder, enhancing safety and efficiency  for storage of green hydrogen.
Solar-powered Electrolyser-based Hydrogen Generation   We have placed purchase orders for establishing green  hydrogen production systems and dispensing stations,  leveraging solar energy for electrolysis.
Demonstration of 15 Green Hydrogen PEM fuel  cell buses in Delhi NCR and the establishment of  hydrogen refuelling infrastructure for FC electric  buses at iconic routes.
Deployment of fuel cell buses across the country  for various functional streams, including  Défense Forces (Army, Navy, Air Force),  tourism, airline operations, and State Transport  Undertakings (STUs).
IndianOil’s Green Hydrogen Fuel Cell Bus a b As freshwater scarcity intensifies due to population growth and rising per capita consumption, IndianOil locations are  exploring alternate avenues for water sourcing.
These include adopting practices like rainwater harvesting, recycling and  reusing treated wastewater , and incorporating treated municipal sewage water into operations.
Additionally, consideration  is given to utilising seawater to fulfill operational needs.
For water conservation, strategies such as installing waterless urinals, utilising reverse osmosis (RO) treated wastewater  for irrigation, and installing hand sensing taps are being implemented.
New Initiatives Clarifier at Gujarat Refinery for treatment of sewage waste for reusing water Reuse and Conserve Several initiatives have been implemented to  enhance water management and contribute  to broader environmental objectives.
First,  we have begun reusing treated wastewater  from various sources such as the Mathura  Laxminagar STP and Rajivnagar STP of  Gujarat VMC, significantly reducing our  freshwater consumption.
Additionally,  partnerships like the one with Syama  Prasad Mookerjee (SPM) Port allow us to  utilise treated wastewater for industrial  purposes, further conserving freshwater  resources.
Moreover , the ongoing Zero  Liquid Discharge (ZLD) projects, like the  PRPC Multiple Effect Evaporator and others,  aim to minimise wastewater discharge  by recycling and treating effluents within  our facilities.
Our initiatives align with Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6:  Clean Water and Sanitation, by maximising the use of treated  wastewater and minimising freshwater usage.
For instance,  at Digboi Refinery, our utilisation of rainwater harvested from  percolation ponds has led to a significant reduction in industrial  freshwater consumption, contributing directly to SDG 6 targets.
Raising Awareness To raise awareness about water reuse  and conservation efforts, we undertake  a variety of initiatives, which are aimed  at engaging stakeholders across the  spectrum.
These include village awareness  programmes, campaigns, webinars, and  regular interactions with key stakeholders  such as employees, customers, suppliers,  investors, and policymakers.
Water Management Water management is a crucial concern for our Company, reflecting our commitment to responsible resource utilisation.
As we navigate  the challenges posed by water scarcity and escalating environmental pressures, we recognise the need to adopt proactive measures  to safeguard this precious resource.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 086 087  As part of our steadfast commitment to encouraging sustainability, Mathura Refinery is reutilising  treated wastewater from Laxminagar .
Mathura Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) has helped reduce  ~50% consumption of freshwater from the Yamuna river , while Gujarat Refinery is consuming treated  wastewater from Rajivnagar STP, helping reduce 25% freshwater withdrawal from Mahi river .
In 2023, we were honoured with the prestigious ‘Green Ribbon Champion’ award by Network18, India’s  premier media for our IndianOil’s above ground-breaking initiative of Reutilisation of Treated wastewater  from the STP at Laxmi Nagar , Mathura.
The Haldia Refinery too has entered into an agreement with the Syama Prasad Mookerjee  Port Trust for the reutilisation of 4 MLD treated wastewater from its STP which is likely to be  commissioned by April 2025.
Waste Management E-waste Management Guided by the E-waste Management  and Handling Rules 2022, we dispose  E-waste through buyback schemes or  via government-approved trading agency  MSTC, ensuring recovery and reuse while  reducing hazardous waste.
Management of hazardous waste We at IndianOil take multiple initiatives  to ensure the proper management of  hazardous waste.
Oily Sludge Various actions are employed to mitigate  oily sludge generation, such as source  minimisation and recovery techniques  like hot gas oil circulation and the  deployment of mechanical cleaning  devices.
Subsequently, disposal methods  are implemented, including dewatering,  de-oiling, recycling, and bio-remediation.
Spent Catalyst: To manage spent catalysts effectively,  a dual approach is adopted.
Precious  metal-bearing catalysts undergo  careful handling, being sent to  authorised recyclers for the recovery  of valuable metals.
The other catalysts  are either co-processed or auctioned  through MSTC, ensuring their  efficient utilisation.
Slop Oil Following the recovery process of the  oily sludge, the extracted oil undergoes  meticulous treatment to remove water  content before it is reintroduced into  the refinery’s reprocessing system.
This treatment phase is essential to  ensure the quality and purity of the  recovered oil, optimising its suitability  for refinery operations.
Barnacles Coral protected by IndianOil at Vadinar, Gujarat Management of Other Waste For managing kitchen waste, we employ  waste management plants where the waste  undergoes treatment processes aimed  at producing biogas or manure, thereby  promoting sustainable waste management  practices.
Concurrently, the handling  of biomedical waste adheres strictly to  Biomedical Waste Management rules, such  as systematic collection, and storage, as  well as the disposal of such waste through  approved agencies.
Awareness and Compliance We prioritise compliance with regulatory  requirements by ensuring submission of  annual returns and strict adherence to the  specific and general conditions outlined in  our Consent to Operate, Hazardous Waste  Authorisations, and Biomedical Waste  Authorisations.
Following a comprehensive  approach to awareness and engagement,  we conduct diverse programmes and  celebrations such as World Environment  Day and the Hazardous Waste Management  Conclave to educate our employees and  local communities.
Ecopark at Bongaigaon Refinery, Assam  Biodiversity  As part of our Corporate Environmental  Responsibility (CER) initiative, Haldia  Refinery has joined hands with the  Sundarban Tiger Conservation Foundation  Trust (STCFT) to enhance patrolling efforts in  the Sundarban Tiger Reserve, contributing  to the conservation of the endangered Royal  Bengal Tigers in West Bengal.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 088 089  Awards & Accolades Recognition for Achievements Mr Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman, was honoured with  the PSU CMD Leadership Award 2022 by Governance Now.
Network18, India’s premier media group, conferred the  prestigious ‘Green Ribbon Champion’ Award to IndianOil  for reutilisation of treated waste water by Mathura Refinery.
IndianOil was conferred with the prestigious Government-e- Marketplace (GeM) Award in the category of ‘Highest Single  Bid Procurements in the financial year 2022-23’.
Chairman was honoured with the prestigious title of ‘Friend of  FIDE’ by the World Chess Federation (FIDE) for transforming  lives trough Chess.
IndianOil was adjudged ‘Winner’ under the category of  ‘Issuer of The Year - Commercial Paper’ at the 6 th National  Summit & Awards - Corporate Bond Market 2023 organised  by the Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of  India (ASSOCHAM).
‘Best Enterprise Award’ was bestowed upon IndianOil under  the ‘Maharatna’ Category by Women in Public Sector (WIPS).
Chairman, led IndianOil and Group Company Teams in receiving  the Refinery Performance Improvement and Innovations  SAKSHAM Awards from Mr Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister  for Petroleum & Natural Gas.
The prestigious award for the best in ‘Refinery Performance  Improvement’ under less than 9 MMPTA category in the  year 2022-23 was given to Barauni Refinery.
IndianOil R&D was recognised with the ‘Innovation Award  for Best Innovation in R&D Institute’ for IndEcoP2F  Technology, a technology for converting plastic waste to  fuel in the refinery for a sustainable environment.
‘Refinery Performance Improvement’ above the 9 MMPTA  category was bagged by CPCL ’s Manali Refinery, a refinery  under IndianOil Group.
IndianOil was honoured with four  prestigious awards across various  categories at the FIPI Oil and  Gas Awards 2022.
Special commendation in the  ‘Initiatives in Compressed Bio Gas  - Company of the Year’ category.
‘Digitally Advanced Company of the  Year’ for the third year in a row.
Mathura Refinery bagged the coveted  ‘Refinery of the Year - Small & Medium  Refineries Capacity up to (≤) 9 MMTPA  (Special Commendation)’ 2022 Award.
Barauni Refinery’s Ms Pinki, Assistant  Manager (Technical Services), received  the coveted FIPI award for ‘Young  Achiever of the Year in the Oil and  Gas Industry (Female)’ 2022.
IndianOil received five  prestigious FICCI Chemicals &  Petrochemicals Awards 2023  Company of the year .
Sustainability - Best Green Product -  Panipat (Ethanol).
Sustainability - Driving Circular  Economy (CYCLOPLAST + Unbottled).
Sustainability - Excellence in Safety  for LAB Plants at Paradip & Panipat.
Excellence in the Sub-sector (Plastics).
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 090 091  National Sports Awards were presented  by the Honourable President.
Ms Manjusha Kanwar , DGM (Sports  Coordination), Corporate Office  and a stalwart in Badminton,  Pipeline locations won NSCI Safety Awards 2023.
IndianOil received the prestigious Brandon Hall Group  Gold Award for its innovative customer attendant training  programme, “Seva Shoorveer”.
This remarkable achievement  falls under the category of “Best Advance in Creating an  Extended Enterprise Learning Programme” .
IndianOil bagged the prestigious Supply Chain and Logistics  Excellence (SCALE) Award for the 7th consecutive time under  the Oil and Gas category from Confederation of Indian Industry  (CII) in Bengaluru.
received the revered Major Dhyan  Chand Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sheetal Devi (Para-Archery), Aditi  Gopichand Swamy (Archery), Esha  Singh (Shooting) and Krishan  Bahadur Singh (Hockey) received  the Arjuna Award for their  outstanding performance.
The dynamic Indian shuttle duo, Chirag  Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy  were conferred the Major Dhyan Chand  Khel Ratna Award.
During the Biodiesel 2023 conclave organised by Biodiesel  Association of India (BDAI), IndianOil Hyderabad Smart Terminal  was awarded the first prize under the category of ‘Highest volume  blended by a single OMC Location.
The terminal received highest  volumes of Biodiesel (11,222 Km) and 7% Biodiesel was blended  in HSD through in-tank blending.
A Performance Benchmarking Study encompassing 17 pipelines  and two SPMs for the year 2022-23 was conducted by the Centre  for High Technology through Solomon Associates, USA.
Operation  metrices related to SPMs have been lauded to be among the world’s  best.
Energy Intensity Index of IndianOil’s pipelines emerged to be  the best among participating Indian PSUs.
Southern Region Pipelines, Chennai - Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar (Silver Trophy).
Western Region Pipelines, Viramgam - Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar (Silver Trophy).
IndianOil was conferred with the winner and runner up awards on  product innovations for the development of SERVO Grease Miracle  and Sustainability initiatives at Rosefield conference for Lubes  and Fuels at Mumbai.
IndianOil was awarded by Maruti Suzuki India Limited in their  “Annual Vendor conference” in the category “Overall performance  for the year FY’22-23”.
IndianOil R&D bagged the Clarivate South Asia Innovation Award  2023 in Public Sector Undertakings (PSU) category.
IndianOil was adjudged winner of “20 th FICCI CSR Awards” for  its CSR project IndianOil Fodder Bank Project, Gannavaram  Andhra Pradesh.
IndianOil was honored with the prestigious award for ‘Best-In- Class Excellence in Supply Chain - Oil and Gas Sector’ during the  15th Express Logistics & Supply Conclave (ELSC) organised by  Kamikaze B2B Media in Mumbai.
The prestigious SKOCH-ESG Awards (2023) was conferred upon  IndianOil in the category of “Initiatives towards Net-Zero ambition”.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 092 093  Mr Ravi P Gupta and Dr P Sivagurunathan from IndianOil R&D  Centre, were recognised as the ‘Top 2% Scientists Worldwide in the  field of Energy’ 2022 database, published by Stanford University,  USA, and Elsevier BV.
IndianOil was conferred with “10th Business Responsibility Summit  and Project Excellence Contest & Awards” for its CSR project  IndianOil Vayu Amrit, Punjab.
The CII-Climate Action Plan (CAP) Award 2023 was conferred  upon IndianOil.
IndianOil secured the EEF Award with Platinum certification and  the Blue-Ribbon Award.
IndianOil was adjudged winner of the 4 th India Green Energy  Award (2023) in two categories - Outstanding Solar Project  (5-25 MW); and Leadership in Battery Charging/Swapping/  Infrastructure, by the IFGE.
IndianOil was recognised with the “Atmanirbhar Excellence”  Award at Tata Motors Annual Supplier Conference 2023,  Pune for outstanding achievement in the approval and  commercialisation of Haldia Group III base oil.
IndianOil R&D Centre secured the ‘Innovation Award for Best Innovation in R&D Institute’ by CHT for IndEcoP2F Technology at 26th  Energy Technology Meet.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 094  BOARD OF DIRECTORS WHOLE TIME DIRECTORS  GOVERNMENT NOMINEE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS   KEY MANGERIAL PERSONNEL (KMP) 1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman 2.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri, Director (Marketing) 3.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury, Director (Planning & Business Development) 4.
Shri N Senthil Kumar , Director (Pipelines) w.e.f.
14.08.2023 5.
Shri Anuj Jain, Director (Finance) w.e.f.
09.10.2023 (A/N) 6.
Shri Alok Sharma, Director (Research & Development) w.e.f.
16.01.2024 7.
Ms Rashmi Govil, Director (Human Resources) w.e.f.
15.03.2024 8.
Shri Arvind Kumar , Director (Refineries) w.e.f.
17.07.2024 9.
Dr S S V Ramakumar , Director (Research & Development) upto 31.07.2023 10.
Ms Sukla Mistry, Director (Refineries) upto 30.04.2024 11.
Dr Sujata Sharma w.e.f.
11.05.2024 12.
Shri Sunil Kumar upto 07.05.2024 13.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung        14.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant         15.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker        16.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas         17.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray         18.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan        19.
Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh 1.
Shri Sanjay Kaushal, Chief Financial Officer Upto 09.10.2023 (F/N) 2.
Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani, Company Secretary List of Senior Executives Anant Kumar Singh Chief Vigilance Officer Subimal Mondal Executive Director I/C (Human Resources), Corporate Office Shyam Bohra Executive Director (Corporate Communications & Coordination),  Corporate Office Sanjeev Gupta Executive Director (Corporate Strategy), Corporate Office Sandeep Jain Executive Director (Gas), Business Development Sanjay Kaushal Executive Director I/C (Law, Taxation & Corporate Affairs),  Corporate Office Vinod Kumar Executive Director (International Trade), Corporate Office Debasis Bhattacharyya Executive Director (Technology Implementation Cell), R&D M Annadurai Executive Director & State Head (Tamil Nadu State Office), Marketing Sanjay Kumar Jha Executive Director (City Gas Distribution), Pipelines S P Singh Executive Director (Maintenance & Inspection), Refineries  T C Shankar Executive Director (Finance), Pipelines & Chief Risk Officer D N Badarinarayan Executive Director (Engineering & Projects), Marketing  K Sailendra Executive Director (LPG), Marketing  Anil Sarin Executive Director (Security & Health, Safety & Environment),  Corporate Office G Ramesh Executive Director & State Head (Indian Oil AOD State  Office), Marketing Anirban Ghosh Executive Director & State Head (Maharashtra State  Office), Marketing Dr Madhusudan Sau Executive Director (Refining Technology), R&D Rajiv Kacker Executive Director I/C (Vigilance), Corporate Office Shailendra Shukla Executive Director I/C (Quality Control), Marketing  K S Rao Executive Director (Operations), Marketing  Lalit Kumar Singh Chauhan Executive Director & State Head (West Bengal State  Office), Marketing Sanjay Parashar Executive Director (Supplies), Marketing  Padma Dhulipala (Ms) Executive Director (Corporate Planning & Economic Studies),  Business Development Alok Kumar Panda Executive Director & State Head (Rajasthan State Office), Marketing Manish Grover Executive Director (Strategic IS & IS), Refineries  Dr C Kannan Executive Director (Chemical Technology and Technology Promotion  & Forecasting), R&D M L Dahriya Executive Director & Refinery Head (Panipat Refinery) Pankaj Kuchhal Executive Director (Materials & Contracts), Pipelines B Anil Kumar Executive Director & State Head (Telangana & Andhra Pradesh  State Office), Marketing Gur Prasad Executive Director (Retail Sales - North & East), Marketing  Dipak Kumar Basu  Executive Director & State Head (Madhya Pradesh State  Office), Marketing Santanu Gupta Executive Director (Alternative Energy), Business Development Dr Mukesh Ranjan Das Executive Director (Human Resources), Marketing Manoj Kumar Sharma Executive Director (Finance),Business Development  Subhajit Sarkar Executive Director (Operations), Refineries  V C Asokan Executive Director (Retail Sales-South & West), Marketing  Arvindar Singh Sahney Executive Director (Petrochemicals), Business Development Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 096 097  Dr Tapas Kumar Pattanayak Executive Director (Human Resources), Refineries  Subodh Kumar Bajpai Executive Director (Health, Safety & Environment), Marketing  Shailesh Tiwari Executive Director & Regional Head (Northern Region Pipelines)  NRPL, Panipat HQ Jitendra Kumar Executive Director & State Head (Punjab State Office), Marketing Subrat Kar Executive Director (Planning & Economic Studies), Marketing  Ajit Kumar Executive Director (Explosives), Business Development Kausik Basu Executive Director & Refinery Head (Paradip Refinery) Satya Prakash Executive Director & Refinery Head (Barauni Refinery) Joydeep Choudhury Executive Director (Projects), Refineries  Sandeep Sharma Executive Director (Corporate Communications &  Branding), Marketing  Sanjeev Kumar Choudhary Executive Director & State Head (Bihar State Office), Marketing Ajay Kumar Tiwari  Executive Director & Refinery Head (Mathura Refinery) Rahul Prashant Executive Director & Refinery Head (Gujarat Refinery) Dr Umish Srivastva Executive Director Alternative Energy & New Energy Campus, R&D Saurav Mitra Executive Director I/C (Internal Audit), Corporate Office Suman Kumar Executive Director (Exploration & Production), Business Development Mukesh Mohan Executive Director (Health, Safety & Environment), Refineries  Rohit Dawar Executive Director (Projects), Refineries  Nayan Kumar Barua Executive Director & Refinery Head (Bongaigaon Refinery) R Udaya Kumar Executive Director (Lubes), Marketing  Arvind Acharya Executive Director (Project Appraisal Group), Corporate Office Saumitra P Srivastava Executive Director (Retail Sales) (Maharashtra State  Office), Marketing Hemant Kumar Rathore Executive Director & State Head (Uttar Pradesh State  Office II), Marketing Ashutosh Kumar Mehta Executive Director (Construction), Pipelines Manish Botke Executive Director (Operations), Pipelines Bibhuti Ranjan Pradhan Executive Director & Head (IndianOil Institute of  Petroleum Management) Manoj Kumar Gupta Executive Director & State Head (Delhi State Office), Marketing Amit Dasgupta Executive Director & Regional Head (Eastern Region  Pipelines), Kolkata Neeraj Ahluwalia Executive Director (Retail Sales - Highway Marketing), Marketing Mathew Varghese Executive Director & Executive Officer to Chairman, Corporate Office Manoj Kumar Sharma Executive Director (Projects), Pipelines Rajesh Singh Executive Director & State Head (Uttar Pradesh State  Office I), Marketing Sumoy Kumar Palit Executive Director (Human Resources), Pipelines Jagdeep Kumar Rana Executive Director (Regional Services), Northern Region  Office, Marketing Shashikant B Kalyani Executive Director (Finance), Marketing Sourav De Executive Director (Human Resources), Eastern Region  Pipelines, Kolkata  Rajeev Mohan Executive Director (Law, Taxation & Corporate Affairs),  Corporate Office Duvvada Sudhakara Rao Executive Director & Regional Head (South Eastern Regional  Pipelines), Bhubaneswar HQ Sunil Kanti Executive Director (Materials & Contracts), Refineries  S Lakshminarayanan Executive Director (Sustainable Development), Marketing  Mukul Maheshwari Executive Director (Lubricant Technology), R&D Abhijit Chakraborty Executive Director (Projects), Refineries  Himanshu Ranjan  Executive Director (Institutional Business), Marketing  M Sudhakar Executive Director (Regional Services), Southern Regional  Office, Marketing Subrata Chaudhuri Executive Director (Finance), Refineries  Pankaj Kumar Executive Director (Regional Services),  Eastern Region  Office,  Marketing Pravin Dongre Executive Director (Sustainable Development),  Business Development Ruchir Agrawal Executive Director (Finance), R&D N M Nimje Executive Director (Aviation), Marketing  Raghunadhan A V Executive Director (New Business), Business Development R V N Vishweshwar Executive Director (Corporate Finance & Treasury), Corporate Office Biplob Biswas Executive Director (Process-Projects), Refineries  Dr Ajit Kumar Thakur Chief Executive Officer Gr .’I’ Indradhanush Gas Grid Ltd Sanjib Kumar Behera Executive Director & State Head (Gujarat State Office), Marketing Hitesh Ramesh Shah Executive Director (Technical), Gujarat Refinery K Gururaj Executive Director (Cryogenics), Marketing Alok Kumar Executive Director (Vigilance), Corporate Office Rajesh Nambiar Executive Director (Retail Sales) (IndianOil AOD State  Office), Marketing Jitendra Agarwalla Executive Director (Optimisation), Corporate Office Bankim Behari Patra Executive Director (Quality Control), Marketing  Suresh P Nambiar Executive Director (Information System) Corporate Business  Technology Centre, IIPM Gurgaon Sunit Joshi Executive Director (Pricing), Marketing  R K Kaushik Singha Executive Director (Petrochemicals), Refineries  Nikhil Deep Mathur Executive Director (Retail Transformation), Marketing  Siddharth Agarwal Executive Director & State Head (Karnataka State Office), Marketing Ajay Kaila Executive Director & Refinery Head (AOD Refinery) Dr Alex C Pulikottil Executive Director Petrochemical & Catalyst, R&D  Atanu Sanyal Executive Director & Refinery Head (Haldia Refinery) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 098 099  MAIN OFFICES & MAJOR UNITS Registered Office IndianOil Bhavan, G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400 051 Maharashtra Corporate Office 3079/3, J.B. Tito Marg,  Sadiq Nagar , New Delhi - 110 049 Refineries Division Head Office SCOPE Complex, Core-2, 7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110 003 Barauni Refinery P. O. Barauni Refinery, Dist.
Begusarai - 851 114  Bihar Digboi Refinery AOD,  P. O. Digboi - 786 171 Assam Gujarat Refinery P. O. Jawahar Nagar , Dist.
Vadodara - 391 320  Gujarat Guwahati Refinery P. O. Noonmati,  Guwahati - 781 020 Assam Haldia Refinery P. O. Haldia Refinery, Dist.
Midnapur - 721 606  West Bengal Mathura Refinery P. O. Mathura Refinery, Mathura - 281 005  Uttar Pradesh Panipat Refinery P. O. Panipat Refinery, Panipat - 132 140  Haryana Bongaigaon Refinery P. O. Dhaligaon  Dist.
Chirang - 783 385, Assam Paradip Refinery P.O.
Jhimani, via Kujang, Dist.
Jagatsinghpur – 754 141 Odisha Pipelines Division Head Office A-1, Udyog Marg, Sector-1, NOIDA - 201 301  Uttar Pradesh Northern Region P. O. Panipat Refinery, Panipat - 132 140  Haryana Eastern Region 14, Lee Road, Kolkata - 700 020  West Bengal Western Region P. O.
Box 1007,  Bedipara, Morvi Road, Gauridad, Rajkot - 360 003  Gujarat Southern Region 6/13, Wheatcrafts Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai - 600 034 Tamil Nadu South Eastern Region E/3, 4th Floor , Infinia Tower ,  Infocity Area, Patia, Bhubaneswar- 751024 Marketing Division Head Office IndianOil Bhavan, G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400 051 Maharashtra Northern Region IndianOil Bhavan,  1, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Yusuf Sarai,  New Delhi - 110 016 Eastern Region IndianOil Bhavan, 2, Gariahat Road (South), Dhakuria, Kolkata - 700 068 West Bengal Western Region IndianOil Bhavan Plot No.
C-33, G Block Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai- 400 051 Maharashtra Southern Region IndianOil Bhavan, 139, Nungambakkam High Road, Chennai - 600 034 Tamil Nadu Business Group Cryogenics A-4, MIDC Ambad Nashik- 422 010 Maharashtra Business Development Group IndianOil Bhavan,  1, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Yusuf Sarai,  New Delhi - 110 016 Business Group Explosives IBP House, 34A, Nirmal Chandra Street Kolkata - 700 013 West Bengal R&D Centre Sector 13,  Faridabad - 121 007  Haryana BANKERS State Bank of India  HDFC Bank Ltd. STOCK EXCHANGES BSE Ltd. 25th Floor , P.J.
Towers, Dalal Street, Fort,   Mumbai - 400001  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.  Exchange Plaza,  5th Floor , Plot C/1, ‘G’ Block,  Bandra - Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051  REGISTRAR & TRANSFER AGENT KFin Technologies Limited Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32,  Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Hyderabad – 500 032 Toll Free No.
:  1800 309 4001 E-mail Address: einward.ris@kfintech.com Website: www.kfintech.com DEBENTURE TRUSTEE SBICAP Trustee Company Ltd. Mistry Bhavan, 4th Floor , 122, Dinshaw Vachha Road,  Churchgate, Mumbai - 400020 Website: www.sbicaptrustee.com LIST OF STATUTORY/COST/SECRETARIAL AUDITORS FOR THE YEAR 2023-24 BANKERS/STOCK EXCHANGES/REGISTRAR & TRANSFER AGENT/DEBENTURE TRUSTEE STATUTORY AUDITORS  1.
S R B & Associates, Kolkata 2.
K G Somani & Co. LLP, New Delhi  3.
Khandelwal Jain & Co., Mumbai  4.
Komandoor & Co. LLP, Kolkata  COST AUDITORS  1.
Chandra Wadhwa & Co., New Delhi 2.
Balwinder & Associates, New Delhi 3.
ABK & Associates, Mumbai 4.
Bandyopadhyaya Bhaumik & Co., Kolkata 5.
R.J. Goel & Co., New Delhi 6.
Mani & Co., Kolkata 7.
Vivekanandan Unni & Associates, Chennai Chandra Wadhwa & Co., New Delhi is the Central Cost Auditor .
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, Mumbai Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 101  GROUP COMPANIES SUBSIDIARIES JOINT VENTURES Name Business Indian Subsidiaries Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
Refining of Petroleum Products IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Ltd. (IGCMIL) Financial Services Terra Clean Limited (incorporated on 31.05.2024) To undertake Low Carbon, New Clean and Green Energy Businesses Mercator Petroleum Ltd. Exploration and Production of Oil and Gas Foreign Subsidiaries IndianOil (Mauritius) Ltd., Mauritius Terminalling, Retailing, Aviation refueling & Bunkering Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka Retailing, Terminalling & Bunkering  IOC Middle East FZE, UAE Lube Blending & Marketing of Lubricants & Base Oil IOC Sweden AB, Sweden Investment company for E&P Project in Venezuela and Battery Technology  Company in Israel IOCL (USA) Inc., USA Participation in Shale Gas Asset Project  IndOil Global B.V., Netherlands Investment company for E&P Assets in Canada and UAE IOCL Singapore Pte Ltd., Singapore Crude Oil trading, Import/Export of petroleum products and Investment  Company for E&P Assets & Alternative Energy Technology Company Name Business Partners Avi-Oil India Pvt.
Ltd. Manufacturing of Speciality  lubricants Neden BV, Netherlands Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd. Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd.
Setting up of 9 MMTPA Refinery  at Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu.
Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Axis Bank Ltd. HDFC Life Insurance Company Ltd. ICICI Bank Ltd. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. SBI Life Insurance Company Ltd. Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Ltd.
Setting up and operation of  Aviation Fuel Facility at Delhi  Airport.
Delhi International Airport Ltd.   Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  GH4India Private Limited Develop green hydrogen  production assets and  associated renewable assets.
Larsen & Toubro Ltd.
Renew Power Pvt.
Ltd. Green Gas Ltd. City Gas Distribution GAIL (India) Ltd. GSPL India Transco Ltd.
Setting up of Natural Gas  Pipelines  Gujarat State Petronet Ltd. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. GSPL India Gasnet Ltd.
Setting up of Natural Gas  Pipelines  Gujarat State Petronet Ltd. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd.
Setting up and operating  fertiliser plants at Sindri,  Gorakhpur and Barauni Coal India Ltd. NTPC Ltd.
Fertilizer Corporation of India Ltd. Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Ltd. IHB Ltd.
Laying, building, operating or  expanding LPG Pipeline from  Kandla (Gujarat) to Gorakhpur  (UP) Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. IOC GPS Renewables Pvt.Ltd.
(incorporated on 21.06.2024) Integrating advanced biogas  technologies to convert organic  waste into CBG GPS Renewables Pvt.
Ltd. IndianOil Adani Ventures Ltd. (formerly known as  Indian Oil Tanking Ltd.) Terminalling, EPC services and  production of Compressed Bio- Gas (CBG) Adani Ports and SEZ Ltd. IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. City Gas Distribution Adani Total Gas Ltd. Name Business Partners IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd. Terminalling services and  parallel marketing of LPG Petronas, Malaysia.
IndianOil LNG Pvt.
Ltd. LNG Terminal at Ennore Maximus Investment Advisory Pvt.
Ltd.  ICICI Bank Ltd. Tamil Nadu Industrial Development  Corporation Ltd. IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Pvt.
Ltd.
Developing Renewable Energy  based power projects NTPC Green Energy Ltd. IndianOil Skytanking Pvt.
Ltd. Aviation fuel facility projects  and Into Plane services Skytanking GmbH, Germany Indian Synthetic Rubber Pvt.
Ltd. Manufacturing of Styrene  Butadiene Rubber at Panipat Trimurti Holding Corporation, B.V.I.
Indradhanush Gas Grid Ltd.
Setting up Natural Gas Pipeline  in North East India Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.  GAIL (India) Ltd. Oil India Ltd. Numaligarh Refinery Ltd. IndianOil Total Pvt.
Ltd.
Undertaking bitumen business,  LPG business as conducted at  LPG facilities  Total Marketing and Services S.A., France IOC Phinergy Pvt.
Ltd. Commercialisation of the Al- Air battery technology in India Phinergy, Israel Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Ltd.
Laying pipeline for  transportation of LPG from  Kochi to Salem Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Lubrizol India Pvt.
Ltd. Manufacturing of Lube  Additives  Lubrizol Corp., USA Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Pvt.
Ltd.
Setting up common user  integrated aviation fuel  infrastructure at Mumbai  Airport  Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.  Mumbai International Airport Ltd. NPCIL – IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation  Ltd.
Setting up Nuclear Power  Plant Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. Paradeep Plastic Park Ltd. Development and  implementation of Plastic Park  project at Paradip, Odisha Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development  Corporation Petronet LNG Ltd. LNG imports/distribution and  regasification Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.  GAIL (India) Ltd.  Petronet VK Ltd. Construction and operation of  pipeline for transportation of  POL products from Vadinar to  Kandla Reliance Industries Ltd.  Nayara Energy Ltd.  Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation  Ltd.  Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services  Ltd. Deendayal Port Trust  State Bank of India  Canara Bank Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. Refinery and Petrochemical  Project in Maharashtra Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.   Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Suntera Nigeria 205 Ltd. Oil exploration activities Oil India Ltd.  Suntera Resources Ltd., Cyprus Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 103  Particulars (US $ Million) (J in Crore) 2023-24 2022-23 2023-24 2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 Financial Revenue from Operations 104631 116259 866345 934953 728445 514890 566354 Profit before Exceptional Items, Finance Cost,  Tax, Depreciation & Amortisation (EBITDA) 8959 3543 74182 28487 47568 42614 22356 Profit before Exceptional Items, Finance Cost   & Tax (EBIT) 7207 2068 59672 16628 36562 32810 13590 Profit before Exceptional Items & Tax 6322 1206 52344 9698 31733 29716 7611 Profit before Tax (PBT) 6322 1206 52344 9698 31733 29716 (3694) Profit after Tax (PAT) 4785 1025 39619 8242 24184 21836 1313 Other Comprehensive Income (net of tax) 1613 (182) 13356 (1464) 6260 4584 (10409) Total Comprehensive Income 6398 843 52975 6778 30444 26420 (9096) Contribution to Central & State Exchequer 29182 29866 241629 240185 264436 238786 182067 Cumulative Dividend (on issued share capital) 107162 90636 86505 74937 63920 Value Added 10297 4634 85262 37257 58560 53326 19844 Distribution : To Employees 1338 1091 11080 8770 10992 10712 8793 To Providers of Capital    - Finance Cost 885 862 7328 6930 4829 3094 5979  - Dividend 1331 411 11017 3305 9640 9640 4820 To Government- Income Tax & Dividend Tax 1537 181 12725 1456 7549 7880 (4021) Retained in Business     - Depreciation 1752 1475 14510 11859 11006 9804 8766  - Retained earnings 3454 614 28602 4937 14544 12196 (4493) What Corporation Owns Net Fixed Assets 21684 20137 180867 165485 146889 143400 133682 Capital Work In Progress (CWIP) 7081 5961 59066 48991 44446 33052 29738 Investments 8523 6999 71088 57519 57787 48619 39139 Other Non Current Assets 942 788 7854 6472 6912 5437 6279 Other Current Assets 16373 16986 136567 139587 129557 101117 98000 T otal 54603 50871 455442 418054 385591 331625 306838 What Corporation Owes Equity  - Share Capital 1651 1676 13772 13772 9181 9181 9181  - Other Equity 19535 14722 162943 120986 122105 101319 84588 Total 21186 16398 176715 134758 131286 110500 93769 Borrowings 13967 16123 116496 132495 110799 94413 108620 Tax Liability (Net) 1888 1553 15745 12766 11491 11334 7160 Other Non Current Liabilities 1406 1391 11728 11433 10838 10810 10278 Other Current Liabilities 16156 15406 134758 126602 121178 104569 87010 Total 54603 50871 455442 418054 385591 331625 306838 Net worth (as per Companies Act) 17680 14469 147473 118906 114031 100064 87851 Market Capitalisation 28400 13386 236884 110004 111981 86469 76867 Enterprise Value 42311 29464 352916 242136 222070 180568 184951 Key Financial Indicators Reported GRM (in $/bbl) 12.05 19.52 11.25 5.64 0.08 Normalised GRM (in $/bbl) 11.44 20.14 7.61 2.31 2.64 Singapore GRM (in $/bbl)# 6.61 10.77 4.99 0.54 3.21 Earnings Per Share* (in $/H) 0.35 0.07 28.77 5.98 17.56 15.86 0.95 Cash Earnings Per Share*(in $/H) 0.47 0.18 39.30 14.60 25.55 22.98 7.32 Book Value Per Share* (in $/H) 1.54 1.19 128.32 97.85 95.33 80.24 68.09 Performance at a Glance 1 Revenue from Operations Sales (net of discount) + Sale of Services + Other Operating Revenue + Net claim/(surrender) of  SSC and other claims + Subsidy from Central/State govt.+ Grant from govt.
2 Value Added Profit before Tax + Finance Cost + Depreciation & Amortisation + Employee benefit expenses  3 Investments Non Current Investments + Current Investments 4 Other Current Assets Current Assets - Current Investments - Current Tax Assets 5 Borrowings (Total Debt) Short Term Borrowings + Long Term Borrowings 6 Tax Liability (Net) Deferred Tax Liabilities + Current Tax Liabilities + Income Tax Liabilities - (Current Tax Asset +  Income Tax Asset) 7 Other Current Liabilities Current Liabilities - Short Term Borrowings - Current Tax Liabilities 8 Enterprise Value Market Capitalisation + Borrowings - Cash and Cash Equivalents 9 Equity Equity Share Capital + Other Equity 10 Capital Employed Equity + Borrowings + Deferred Tax Liability 11 Earnings Per Share Profit after Tax/Weighted average number of equity shares 12 Cash Earnings Per Share (Profit after Tax + Depreciation)/Weighted average number of equity shares 13 Book Value Per Equity  Share Equity/Number of equity shares 14 Price Earning Ratio Market Price Per Share/Earning Per Share 15 Dividend Payout Ratio Total Dividend (including final dividend)/Profit after Tax 16 Total Payout Ratio (Total Dividend (including final dividend) + Total Dividend Distribution Tax)/Profit after Tax 17 Retention Ratio (Profit after Tax - Total Dividend - Total Dividend Distribution Tax)/Profit after Tax 18 Total Debt To Equity Borrowings/Equity 19 Long Term Debt To Equity Long Term Borrowing/Equity 20 Current Ratio Current Assets/Current Liabilities 21 Return on Average Net  Worth Profit after Tax/Average Net worth (as per Companies Act) Particulars (US $ Million) (J in Crore) 2023-24 2022-23 2023-24 2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 Market Price Per Share (NSE) (in H) 167.75 77.90 118.95 91.85 81.65 Price Earning Ratio 5.83 13.02 6.77 5.79 85.62 Dividend Payout Ratio 42% 50% 48% 50% 297% Total Payout Ratio 42% 50% 48% 50% 358% Retention Ratio 58% 50% 52% 50% (258%) Debt Equity Ratio  - Total Debt To Equity (times) 0.66 0.98 0.84 0.85 1.16  - Long Term Debt To Equity (times) 0.23 0.43 0.39 0.44 0.46 Current Ratio (times) 0.69 0.74 0.75 0.73 0.69 Return on Average Net Worth (%) 29.75 7.08 22.59 23.24 1.46 Return on Average Capital Employed (%) 20.17 6.19 15.44 15.20 6.45 Total Asset Turnover Ratio (times) 1.99 2.33 2.03 1.61 1.82 Trade Receivables Turnover Ratio (times) 60.60 54.43 45.95 38.96 39.62 Inventory Turnover Ratio (times) 7.62 8.48 7.98 7.20 8.30 Interest Service Coverage Ratio (times) 9.08 3.39 8.25 11.24 1.79 Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times) 2.17 1.30 5.10 5.00 1.67 EBITDA Margin (%) 8.56 3.05 6.53 8.28 3.95 Operating Profit Margin (%) 6.34 1.11 4.42 5.49 1.77 Net Profit Margin (%) 4.57 0.88 3.32 4.24 0.23 Note: Exchange rate used:-  For 2023-24: Average Rate 1 US $ = H 82.80; Closing Rate 1 US $ = H 83.41 as on 31.03.2024 For 2022-23: Average Rate 1 US $ = H 80.42; Closing Rate 1 US $ = H 82.18 as on 31.03.2023 * Note: Absolute figures in US$ and H Adjusted for Bonus Shares (1:2 issued in June 2022) # Source Reuters Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 104 105  22 Return on Average Capital  Employed  EBIT/Average Capital Employed 23 Total Asset Turnover Ratio Total Income/Average Total Assets 24 Trade Receivables Turnover  Ratio Sales (Net of Discounts)/Average Trade Receivable 25 Inventory Turnover Ratio Sales (Net of Discounts)/Average Inventory 26 Interest Service Coverage  Ratio  (Profit before Tax + Finance cost in P&L + Depreciation)/[Finance Costs (P&L + Capitalised)] 27 Debt Service Coverage Ratio (Profit after Tax + Finance cost in P&L + Depreciation)/[Finance cost (P&L + Capitalised) +  Lease & Principal repayment (long term)] 28 EBITA Margin EBITDA/Revenue from Operations 29 Operating Profit Margin (Profit before Exceptional item and tax + Finance cost - Other non operating income)/(Revenue  from operations) 30 Net Profit Margin Profit after Tax/Revenue from Operations II Operations III Manpower Numbers Million Metric Tones Operating Performance 2023-24 2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 Product Sales Domestic   - Petroleum Products 83.297 83.966 73.743 69.353 78.541   - Gas 5.714 4.145 3.592 3.279 3.318   - Petrochemicals 2.980 2.202 2.871 2.675 2.224   - Explosives 0.320 0.342 0.287 0.266 0.205 Total Domestic 92.311 90.655 80.493 75.573 84.288 Export 5.240 5.059 5.914 5.454 5.408 Total 97.551 95.714 86.407 81.027 89.696 Refineries Throughput 73.308 72.408 67.665 62.351 69.419 Pipelines Throughput 98.626 97.382 85.520 76.019 85.349 2023-24 2022-23 2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 No.
of employees as on March 31 30321 31095 31254 31648 32998 Figures for the previous year have been regrouped, wherever necessary.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 106  DIRECTORS’ REPORT Dear Shareholders, It gives me immense pleasure to present the 65th Annual Report and  the 7th Integrated Annual Report of the Company for the financial  year ended March 31, 2024, along with the Audited Standalone and  Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon.
The year 2023-24 was nothing short of extraordinary - a year that  challenged, inspired, and propelled your Company to new heights.
Despite the challenges posed by instabilities in geopolitical scenario  and volatile crude oil prices, your Company stood tall, fuelling the  nation’s progress with unwavering dedication and unmatched  efficiency.
Riding on these strengths, your Company achieved  remarkable performance milestones during the year on both  financial and physical parameters.
The market capitalisation touched an all-time high of ₹ 2.72 Lakh  Crore; the share prices soared to the highest in the last six years and  tripled in the last 3 years.
Building on this excellence, your Company  envisions to become the nation’s primary energy provider by fulfilling  1/8th of India’s energy needs, enhancing its contribution to 12.5% in  India’s energy mix by 2050.
By exploring a comprehensive spectrum  of green transition pathways, including biofuels, green hydrogen,  and electric vehicle infrastructure, your Company is driving India’s  transition towards a sustainable energy landscape.
The core values of the Company were revisited during the year, in  view of the changing business scenario and the organisational  growth plans.
Fuelled by the mission to ‘Propel the Nation’ and  the zeal of being ‘On Duty Always’, a 5th Value of ‘Nation-First’, was  infused with the existing core values of ‘Care’, ‘Innovation’, ‘Passion’ &  ‘Trust’ on first-ever Values Day celebrated on June 30, 2023.
Performance Review Financial The Company reported the highest ever Profit After Tax (PAT) of ₹ 39,618.84 Crore (Standalone) and ₹ 41,729.69 Crore (Consolidated).
The summarised standalone performance and appropriations for 2023-24 are given below: Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 US$ Million ₹ Crore US$ Million ₹ Crore Revenue from Operations (Inclusive of Excise Duty & Sale of Services) 1,04,631 8,66,345 1,16,259 9,34,953 EBITDA (Earnings Before Finance Cost, Tax, Depreciation & Amortisation) 8,959 74,182 3,543 28,487 Finance Cost 885 7,328 862 6,930 Depreciation and Amortisation 1,752 14,510 1,475 11,859 Profit Before Tax 6,322 52,344 1,206 9,698 Tax Provision 1,537 12,725 181 1,456 Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 US$ Million ₹ Crore US$ Million ₹ Crore Profit After Tax 4,785 39,619 1,025 8,242 Balance Brought Forward from Last Year 594 4,916  -  -  Less: Appropriations Interim Dividend paid 832 6,886 - - Final Dividend paid 499 4,132 411 3,305 Insurance Reserve (Net) 2 14 2 20 General Reserve 95 785  - - Balance Carried to Next Year 3,952 32,719 611 4,916 Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 US$ ₹ US$ ₹ Cash Earnings Per Share 0.47 39.30 0.18 14.60 Earnings Per Share 0.35 28.77 0.07 5.98 Book Value Per Share 1.54 128.32 1.19 97.85 Share Value Note: Exchange Rate used For 2023-24: Average Rate 1 US $ = ₹ 82.80; Closing Rate 1 US $ = ₹ 83.41 as on 31.03.2024 For 2022-23: Average Rate 1 US $ = ₹ 80.42; Closing Rate 1 US $ = ₹ 82.18 as on 31.03.2023 The macro-economic, geo-political, financial, industry-specific  information and markets in which the Company operates are  provided in the Management Discussion and Analysis section,  which forms a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Issue of Securities/Changes in Share Capital There was no change in the equity share capital of the Company  during the year.
Further, the Company did not raise any funds by  issuance of debentures/bonds.
Dividend The Board of the Company has formulated a Dividend  Distribution Policy and the dividends declared/recommended,  are in accordance with the said policy.
The policy is hosted on  the website of the Company at: https://www.iocl.com/download/ Dividend-Disribution-Policy.pdf During the year, the Company paid an interim dividend of ₹ 5/- per  share.
In addition, the Board of the Company has recommended  a final dividend of ₹ 7/- per share for the year, thereby taking the  total dividend for the year to ₹ 12/- per share with a total pay-out of  ₹ 16,525.87 Crore equivalent to 41.71% of the PAT.
This is the 57th  consecutive year of dividend declaration by the Company with  cumulative pay-out of ₹ 1,07,162 Crore (including the proposed  final dividend for 2023-24).
Contribution to Exchequer The Company has been one of the largest contributors to the  Government exchequer in the form of duties, taxes, and dividend.
During the year ₹ 2,41,629 Crore was paid to the exchequer as  against ₹ 2,40,185 Crore paid in the previous year, an increase of 1%.
An amount of ₹ 1,21,171 Crore was paid to the Central Exchequer  and ₹ 1,20,458 Crore to the States Exchequer compared to ₹ 1,16,271  Crore and ₹ 1,23,914 Crore paid in the previous year, respectively.
Consolidated Financial Performance In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India, the Company has prepared the Consolidated Financial Statement for the group, including subsidiaries, joint venture  entities and associates, which forms part of the Integrated Report.
The highlights of the Consolidated Financial Results are as under: Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 US$ Million ₹ Crore US$ Million ₹ Crore Revenue from Operations (Inclusive of Excise Duty & Sale of Services) 1,06,429 8,81,235 1,18,305 9,51,410 Profit Before Tax 6,919 57,288 1,870 15,038 Profit After Tax 5,213 43,161 1,455 11,704 Less: Share of Minority 173 1,431 237 1,912 Profit for the Group 5,040 41,730 1,218 9,792 Note: Exchange Rate used For 2023-24: Average Rate 1 US $ = ₹ 82.80 For 2022-23: Average Rate 1 US $ = ₹ 80.42 Chairman with IndianOil Board Members Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 108 109  Operational Performance The operational performance of the Company during 2023-24 is as under: (in MMT) Particulars 2023-24  2022-23 Refineries Throughput 73.308 72.408 Pipelines Throughput (Liquid and Gas pipelines)  98.626  97.382 Product Sales (inclusive of Gas, Petrochemicals & Exports) 97.551 95.714 Refineries Amidst the imperatives of decarbonisation and energy efficiency,  the Refineries have played a pivotal role in meeting the surging  energy demand of the nation, spurred by rapid urbanisation  and industrial growth.
During 2023-24, the Refineries not only  achieved significant milestones but also showcased exemplary  performance across multiple fronts.
The Refineries achieved the  highest ever annual crude processing of 73.31 MMT in 2023- 24, surpassing the previous best of 72.41 MMT in 2022-23.
The  capacity utilisation was 104.5%, surpassing the previous best of  103.8% during 2018-19.
The year also witnessed the highest ever  crude throughput of 84.95 MMT by group refineries (including  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd.) surpassing the previous  best of 83.72 MMT achieved in 2022-23.
The refineries achieved a distillate yield of 79.3%, fuel & loss of  9.1% while achieving 97.3% operational availability.
In terms of  efficient energy utilisation, the refineries recorded MBN of 68.7  as compared to 68.0 in 2022-23.
The refineries achieved Energy  Intensity Index (EII) of 96 which is same as last year.
During the year 2023-24, 6 new grades of crude were included in  the crude basket of the Company thereby taking the crude basket  to 253 grades from different regions such as Africa, Middle East,  America, Russia, etc.
The performance of the petrochemical units was also  extraordinary during the year as the Panipat Naphtha Cracker  achieved the highest ever Naphtha processing of 3111.8 TMT;  highest ever Butadiene production at 112.9 TMT; highest ever  Polypropylene (PP) production at 682.0 TMT; highest ever Swing  Unit Production at 367.0 TMT; highest ever HDPE Unit production  at 331.0 TMT.
Paradip Refinery and Gujarat Refinery also achieved  the highest ever production of 541 TMT of PP and 173 TMT of  LAB respectively.
The year saw significant achievements which include  commissioning of RLNG infrastructure at Barauni Refinery in July  2023 and at Paradip Refinery in November 2023, expansion of  Guwahati Refinery from 1.0 MMTPA to 1.2 MMTPA in November  2023, commissioning of revamped PX/PTA plant at Panipat (from  553 KTPA to 700 KTPA) in December 2023, commissioning of  CDW-II unit of Haldia Refinery in March 2024 and commissioning  of first of its kind Catalyst Manufacturing Unit at Panipat in  January 2024.
In a boost towards achieving circular economy a  first of its kind initiative was taken for utilisation of rejuvenated  catalyst in combination with fresh catalyst in DHDT units of  Panipat, Gujarat, Mathura and Bongaigaon Refineries.
In October 2023, Reference Diesel B7 and Reference Gasoline E10  were launched from Panipat and Paradip Refineries respectively.
In January 2024, Reference Gasoline E-20 was launched from  Paradip Refinery.
These fuels are used for calibration and testing  of vehicle by Automobile manufacturers and testing agencies  like ICAT (International Centre for Automotive Technology) and  ARAI (Automotive Research Association of India).
In November  2023, the first batch of Ethanol Blended MS was produced and  dispatched from Haldia Refinery to Port Blair.
In view of the ban  on use of FO with Sulphur content of more than 1.8%, FO-180  (1.8% Sulphur) was produced at Panipat Refinery in December  2023.
In another significant development, co-processing of Used  Cooking Oil (UCO) commenced in DHDT unit of Paradip Refinery  in June 2023 and at Mathura, Bongaigaon, Panipat, & Digboi  Refinery in January 2024.
Pipelines Pipelines are an integral part of the Company’s strategic business  portfolio.
With a countrywide robust network of crude, product  and natural gas pipelines, our underground energy highways  serve as the lifeblood of the country, ensuring uninterrupted  energy supply 24x7x365, and fueling the Nation’s progress.
The year marked a new zenith of growth and performance as your  Company expanded its pipelines reach, adding an impressive  2,180 Km to the extensive network, taking the total length of  pipeline network to 19,744 Km with a capacity of 124.40 MMTPA  (crude & product pipelines) and 48.73 MMSCMD (gas pipelines)  as on March 31, 2024.
The liquid pipelines achieved a record throughput of 95.80 MMT  (crude throughput of 51.81 MMT and product throughput of  Marketing Your Company assiduously ensures availability and access of  petroleum products to every corner of the country.
The Company  maintained its market leadership in the industry with an overall  market share of 42.44% with a sales volume of 83.3 MMT  (excluding LNG) during 2023-24.
During the year, your Company commissioned 1,260 Retail  Outlets (ROs), 322 CNG stations and 40 CBG stations,  consistently building a formidable network infrastructure totaling  to 37,472 retail outlets, 2,110 CNG stations and 85 CBG stations  as on March 31, 2024.
Your Company recently bagged 10 large  Way Side Amenities (WSA) sites (~15 acres each) from NHAI  on the upcoming Delhi - Amritsar- Katra access-controlled  expressway (6 nos.
in Haryana and 4 nos.
in Punjab) and has  also bagged 4 very large format WSA sites (~45 acres each) in  Rajasthan on the prestigious Delhi - Mumbai Expressway.
With  this, your Company has bagged 64 WSA sites (51 from NHAI  and 13 from State Governments) and has successfully tied up  with private concessionaires of NHAI WSA sites at additional 51  sites for setting up fuel & gas stations.
Your Company is making  significant investment towards look & feel of the Retail Outlets  (ROs) covering driveway, canopies, monolith, unipole and RVI  elements.
Further, for door-to-door delivery, 32 Mobile Dispensers  were added during the year, taking the total number to 1193.
Maintaining the drive to utilise green energy in its retail network,  the Company solarised 10,655 RO’s during 2023-24, thereby taking  the number of solarised ROs to 31,647 (with capacity of 165.57  MWp), which is 84.5% of entire network.
To keep the environment  clean, 3158 ROs have been provided with Vapour Recovery  System (VRS), which includes all ROs of NCR.
In sync with the  Company’s Net-Zero commitment, 3,601 EV Charging Stations  (EVCS) were commissioned during 2023-24, aggregating to 9,059  EVCS.
16 Battery Swapping facilities were also commissioned  during the year.
27 ROs, depicting the historical and cultural  significance of the RO to the Company, were renovated during  the year and rechristened as ‘Heritage ROs’.
These ROs aren’t just  fuel stations but are created as cultural hubs that blend tradition  with modern amenities, showcase exquisite artwork, and help  support local tourism.
The branded fuels of the Company now have a very strong loyal  base of customers and XP95 (95 octane MS), XG (cleaner and  A Process Unit at IndianOil Gujarat Refinery IndianOil’s Robust Pipeline Network 43.99 MMT) during the year, surpassing the previous highest  throughput of 95.04 MMT clocked in 2022-23, registering a  growth of 0.80% on the back of robust demand for petroleum  products.
Gas pipelines too witnessed a record throughput of  3717 MMSCM which surpassed the previous highest throughput  of 3077 MMSCM (by 20.80%) clocked in 2022-23.
Expanding the POL pipeline footprint, the Manmad - Ahmednagar  and Ahmednagar - Solapur sections of Koyali - Ahmednagar -  Solapur Product Pipeline were commissioned in August 2023 and  February 2024, respectively.
With the commissioning of Hathidah  - Muzaffarpur Section and Muzaffarpur - Motihari section of  Paradip - Haldia - Barauni - Motihari LPG Pipeline in May 2023  and February 2024, your Company now has the longest LPG  Pipeline length of 1707 Km in the country.
Somnathpur - Haldia  section of Paradip - Somnathpur - Haldia Product Pipeline was  commissioned in August 2023.
This would serve as an important  link in eastern India connecting the consumption centres up north  till Bihar and Uttar Pradesh with Paradip and Haldia Refineries.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 110 111  greener HSD), XP100 (100 octane MS) were available at 11,000+,  6,900+ and 170+ RO’s respectively as on March 31, 2024.
The  XTRAREWARDS loyalty membership programme for urban  markets crossed the 3.3 Crore mark during the year.
The Company forged a groundbreaking partnership with MotoGP ,  the pinnacle of motorcycle racing, to sponsor the first ever  MotoGP event held in India at Buddh International Circuit, Noida.
This collaboration marked a significant milestone in the realm of  motorsports, as the Company showcased its premium fuel XP100.
The LPG business achieved sales of 14.17 MMT, registering  a growth of 2.5% over previous year.
The Company has a  market share of over 45% with more than 15 Crore customers.
Your Company continues to play the leadership role in the  implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna (PMUY) .
During the year more than 54 Lakh new LPG connections  (including 37.5 Lakh under PMUY) were released.
The year also  witnessed the highest ever bulk LPG sales of 498 TMT, highest  ever NDNE (Non-Domestic Non-Essential) sales of 1035 TMT,  highest ever Xtratej sales of 312 TMT, highest ever Chottu (a  small 5 Kg gas cylinder) sales of 25.2 TMT.
In October 2023, your Company successfully commissioned the  1.2 MMTPA state-of-the-art LPG Import terminal at Kochi.
To  enhance the Company’s bottling capacity and improve supply of  LPG to customers, 3 bottling plants at Kharagpur, Jodhpur and  Sitarganj were commissioned during the year, thereby taking the  total number of LPG bottling plants to 99 with bottling capacity  of 10,973 TMTPA.
The LPG distributorship network was further  strengthened during the year, aggregating to 12,880.
Various LPG customer centric initiatives like ‘Indane Har Din Aapki  Seva Mein ’ (a programme aimed to enhance customer service  ensuring refill delivery on all seven days of the week), ‘ Suraksha  Hose Badlo India campaign ’ (for replacement of Suraksha  hose), ‘ Khushiyan Ab Teen Guna ’ (basic safety checks of LPG  installation at customers’ premises on free of cost), ‘Indane  Easy Go’ (allow customer to retain their pressure regulator while  availing Transfer Voucher) and SMS reminders for Refill booking.
were introduced during the year.
The various safety initiatives  undertaken resulted in reduction in domestic accidents by around  50% over previous year.
As on March 31, 2024, your Company had 126 supply locations  (depots/terminals) spread across the country reaching  petroleum products to even far-flung areas even during difficult  times including natural calamities.
Your Company is the only  Oil Marketing Company serving Andaman & Lakshadweep  Islands.
Other significant achievements during the year include  supporting Defence Forces in Port Blair by positioning fuel for  military aircraft, providing efficient refueling support during the  G-20 Summit, ensuring fuel availability and logistical support  during crisis like Biparjoy cyclone and the Imphal crisis.
Under the Government’s flagship Ethanol Blended Petrol (EBP)  Programme, your Company has been blending Ethanol with MS  to enhance energy security, reduce dependence on fuel imports,  save foreign exchange, and address environmental issues, while  also boosting domestic agriculture sector.
Under the Ethanol  blending programme, E20 petrol was rolled out at more than  4,500 ROs and the Company achieved the highest ever blending  percentage of 12.68% during 2023-24.
E20 fuel was available at  4,718 ROs as on March 31, 2024 across all states and UTs.
E100, the revolutionary green fuel produced only by your Company  has the potential to transform not only the transportation sector  but will also generate employment in rural India and would reduce  dependency on fossil fuels.
The product was launched in New  Delhi in March 2024 by the Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural  Gas.
The product has been introduced at 400 ROs in 4 States of  Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka & Tamil Nadu in addition  to one outlet in Delhi.
Research and Development The R&D Centre of the Company is instrumental in supporting  the "Atmanirbhar Bharat " initiatives through the development of  cost effective and eco-friendly technological solutions.
Cutting- edge research is conducted across core areas of expertise,  including fuels & lubricants, refining technologies & catalysts, and  petrochemicals & polymers.
The Centre's endeavors also extend  to emerging fields such as Nano Technology, Solar, Bioenergy,  Hydrogen, Fuel Cell, and Energy Storage, thus charting the course  for the future.
During the year, the research endeavors resulted in filing of 90  patents, taking the total number of filed patents to 1736 as of  March 31, 2024.
Further, the Company was granted 183 patents  during the year, taking the total effective patent portfolio to 1636.
R&D Centre's contributions to Catalyst and Process Technology  development have significantly bolstered India's self-reliance  under " Atmanirbhar Bharat ."
In fiercely competitive sectors  dominated by multinational corporations, its innovative solutions  have reduced dependency on foreign licensors, empowering  indigenous expertise to thrive and strengthen India's position in the  global energy landscape.
The major developments during the year  include successful commissioning of Catalyst Manufacturing Unit  (CMU) at Panipat Refinery; installation of a 300 kTA indDSK unit at  Paradip Refinery to produce Pipeline Compatible Kerosene (PCK);  introduction of a groundbreaking 'Mixed Metal Oxide' catalyst  for Light Naphtha Isomerisation at Bongaigaon Refinery thus  enhancing refinery capabilities and enabling licensing of ISOM  technology; development of DHDT Digital Twin Model integrating  AI/ML techniques with R&D kinetic model (DHDT-MOD) for real- time monitoring of catalyst performance at Guwahati and Digboi  Refineries, aiding in catalyst life assessment for Gujarat Refinery  and Guwahati Refinery DHDT/ NHT Units; development of Crude  Assay Database Management Software (CADMS) to systematise  storage and retrieval of crude assay data; etc.
In pipeline research, in-house developed IPIG tools were utilised  for record 2,711 Km of inline inspection of pipelines during  2023-24.
Besides, in-house developed and patented Real-Time  Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) kit ‘qPCR,’ to provide  accurate quantification of corrosion-causing microbes was  also introduced.
IndianOil Heritage Retail Outlet in Madhya Pradesh Your Company continued to assert its dominance in the Aviation  Fuel Market, maintaining its leadership position with a market  share of 58% during 2023-24 with sales volume of 4.8 MMT,  a growth of 5.9% over previous year.
Marking a significant  milestone, the 129th AFS was inaugurated at Ayodhya, coinciding  with the unveiling of Maharshi Valmiki International Airport.
SERVO – the Superbrand of Lubricants, is continuously  surpassing its milestone of highest ever volume achieved every  year since 2021 and growing at CAGR of 15.3% since 2019-20.
SERVO registered the highest ever sales volume of 728 TMT  (including exports), registering a growth of 3.7% in 2023-24.
Two new products viz.
SERVO Hypersport F5 & SERVO Grease  Miracle were launched on World Environment Day.
Two new  grades viz.
SERVO Futura ME 20W-50 & SERVO Pride ME 15W- 40 were launched in Dubai in November 2023 by SERVO Brand  Ambassador, John Abraham.
Your Company became the first Indian Company to produce FIM  (Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme) Category 2 Race fuel  in the country, aptly named “STORM - Ultimate Racing Fuel”.
The  first consignment was exported to Thailand in February 2024.
Your Company also entered into partnership with Two Wheeler  Motor Racing, Malaysia for the prestigious FIM Asia Road Racing  Championship as the “Official Fuel Partner” for 3 years.
During the year 38 OEM approvals were received from major  automotive companies such as Tata Motors, Skoda, Volkswagen,  Volvo SDLG, Hero Motocorp, Hyundai and Mahindra & Mahindra.
SERVO added 5 more countries viz.
Guyana, Sierra Leone,  Ghana, Mozambique and Brazil and increased its footprints  to 42 countries worldwide.
Power Machine JSC, Russia, the  largest OEM of Nuclear Power Turbines in the world, approved  Servosynturbo GF 46 (a synthetic oil) for use in Nuclear Power  Turbines for bearing lubrication.
Under the sustainable initiatives to reduce the carbon footprints  326 marketing locations of the Company were GreenCo certified  as on 31.03.2024.
During the year, 12.91 Lakh saplings were  planted at various marketing locations across the country.
Under the green initiatives, your Company launched its second  sustainable SERVO Container - SERVO PET360 in 1 litre pack  during the year.
This is a second initiative with recycled plastic,  after successful introduction of SERVO Container with 30% PCR  (Post-Consumer Recycled).
To enhance the Customer Recognition and Trust, campaigns  like ‘On Duty Always - Hamesha Open’ and ‘We never shut’ and  other campaigns with celebrities like Amitabh Bachchan, John  Abraham and Master Chef Sanjeev Kapoor, were launched.
The Cryogenics group of the Company is pioneer in cryogenics  with over 40 years of experience in design and production of  state-of-the-art vacuum super insulated Cryogenic Storage  & Transport Vessels for LIN, Lox, Lar & LNG applications.
Maintaining its leadership, the cryogenic group sold over 36,000  units of cryocans during the year.
Widening the market reach,  cryocans were exported to the Netherlands.
The Company’s first  LNG dispensing facility at Sriperumbudur (for dispensing Auto  LNG) and LNG Hub at Salem and Vizag (for delivery of CNG/piped  natural gas for City Gas Distribution) was commissioned during  the year.
Leveraging its technological superiority, the Cryogenic  group is poised to become a dominant player in Cryogenics and  LNG equipments business.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 113  garments.
During the year, as part of this initiative, around   3 Lakh Retail Outlet attendants and Indane delivery boys were  provided green garments as uniforms, made from nearly 8 Million  recycled PET bottles.
In pursuit of globalising its petrochemicals brand "PROPEL ", the  Company expanded its export operations to various countries,  such as Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, and regions in  Africa.
During the year, polymer exports to Nepal hit a new high  of 50.7 TMT, surpassing the previous high of 45.2 TMT set in  2016-17.
The Company also successfully executed its first-ever  polymer export shipment to Bangladesh via road transport.
During the year, the Company successfully commissioned the  new Ethylene Glycols plant in Paradip and the revamp of the  Para-Xylene/ Purified Terephthalic Acid plant at Panipat Refinery.
Additionally, various other projects are underway, including the  establishment of Polypropylene units at Barauni and Gujarat  Refinery and Butyl Acrylate Plant at Gujarat Refinery.
In March 2023, the Board of the Company had accorded in- principle approval for a mega petrochemical complex in Paradip,  Odisha, with an investment of ₹ 61,077 Crore During the year, land  acquisition and tendering of project management consultants  for the project were initiated.
Upon completion, this project  would mark a significant milestone in the Company's strategy  to increase its Petrochemical Intensity Index (PII) to over 15% by  2030, from the current level of 6.11%.
Natural Gas During the year, the Company achieved a significant milestone  by recording sales of 6.5 MMT (including internal consumption),  a remarkable 49% year-on-year increase, far surpassing the  industry growth rate of 10%.
This success boosted the Company’s  market share in India’s natural gas market to 13%, up from 10%  in previous year.
During the year, the Company’s sourcing of domestic gas was  strengthened, with sourcing of 1.8 MMT as compared to only 0.3  MMT in 2022-23.
Bidding aggressively in the HP-HT tenders in  2023-24 for fertiliser customers as an aggregator, the Company  successfully procured 5.2 MMSCMD (1.4 MMT) of natural gas.
In  addition, long term gas sales agreements totalling 1.6 MMT were  executed with 9 fertiliser units.
The Company also bolstered its supply lines of imported gas.
As  part of its commitment to strengthen India's energy security, the  Company signed Heads of Agreement with Abu Dhabi National  Oil Company (ADNOC), UAE and Sales and Purchase Agreement  (SPA) with TotalEnergies, France for the supply of 1.2 MMTPA  and 0.8 MMTPA LNG respectively for a multi-year long term  deal.
Additionally, 2.25 MMTPA LNG contract renewal with Qatar  Energy through Petronet LNG ltd. was also executed.
In the Small-Scale LNG (SS-LNG) segment, highest-ever sale of  151 TMT was achieved during the year, reflecting a remarkable  year-on-year growth of 125%.
The Company has also commenced LNG sales from its 1 st LNG  retail outlet in Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu.
15 new LNG stations  are also under various phases of commissioning on the Golden  Quadrilateral and other major National Highways of the country.
During the year, 5 MMTPA Dhamra LNG Terminal was  commissioned, where the Company has booked 3 MMTPA re- gasification capacity.
This along with the 5 MMTPA terminal at  Ennore has strengthened the Company’s presence on the eastern  coast of the country.
The Company’s total regasification capacity  stood at 13.18 MMTPA on March 31, 2024.
As a part of the Company’s range of initiatives across the natural  gas value chain, commissioning of all the trunklines of Ennore  - Thiruvallur - Bengaluru - Puducherry - Nagapattinam - Madurai  - Tuticorin natural gas pipeline was completed during the year,  taking the total length of natural gas pipeline network to over  1,300 Km.
In addition, the Company is also implementing four  natural gas pipelines projects through JVs.
City Gas Distribution (CGD) With an aim to build a gas-based economy and realise Hon’ble  PM’s vision of taking the share of natural gas in the energy pie  to 15% by 2030, the Company continued its momentum to build  infrastructure for faster roll out of City Gas Distribution services.
The Company along with its 2 JVCs (IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. & Green Gas Ltd.) is now present in 49 Geographical Areas  (GA) and 114 Districts spread across 21 States and UTs, making  it one of the largest CGD players in the country.
On standalone  basis, the Company has authorisations for 26 GAs, covering 77  Districts, in 11 states and UTs.
With commencement of CNG  sales in Jammu GA, the 6 th this year, all 26 GAs awarded to the  Company are now operational.
The CGD joint venture companies  (IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. & Green Gas Ltd.) of the Company  registered highest-ever sales of 505 MMSCM during 2023-24 with  a year-on-year growth of 10%.
Exploration & Production (E&P) The Company’s upstream portfolio consists of 18 domestic & 11  overseas assets, of which 8 assets are producing (1 domestic, 7  overseas).
During the year, the production from these producing  assets stood steady at around 4.25 Million Metric Tonne of Oil  Equivalent (MMToe).
Apart from the producing assets, 7 assets  are under development, 4 assets have discoveries, 1 asset is  under appraisal and 9 assets are under exploration.
The Company possesses a diverse portfolio of domestic  assets, including a producing field in Assam, 6 developmental  assets spanning Assam, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh,  and Maharashtra, as well as 11 exploration assets located in  Mizoram, Gujarat, Assam, Tripura, and Rajasthan.
The Company  holds varying participating interests in these blocks, ranging from  20% to 100%, and acts as the operator in 2 domestic blocks.
The gas sales from the Company's domestic Coal Bed Methane  (CBM) Block in Bokaro is expected to commence in 2024-25.
The  pipeline tie-in connectivity to the block has been completed in  preparation for the commencement of gas sales.
During the year, the Company’s domestic exploration and  production efforts got fortified further on being successful  through National Company Law Tribunal Order in favour of the  Company for acquisition of Mercator Petroleum Ltd. (MPL) under  the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process.
The acquisition  making MPL a wholly owned subsidiary of your Company, was  completed in May 2024 following requisite approvals from NITI  Aayog and DIPAM.
In the Company’s overseas operated asset,  a new discovery was made during the year in Onshore Block-1,  Abu-Dhabi, taking the number of discoveries in this asset to three.
Another encouraging development during the year was, lifting of,  Force Majeure in Company’s discovery asset, Area 95-96 in Libya,  paving the way for starting execution of balance commitment  of drilling 2 wells in the block.
In the Pacific Northwest project,  Canada, which is a producing asset, Gas Sales Agreement (GSA)  for offtake of 510 Million cubic feet per day of feed-gas, was  entered into with Petronas for supplying the gas by 2026.
The Company aims to raise its upstream integration ratio to  10% by 2030 from its current ratio of 5.3%, primarily through  investment in domestic assets, while also tapping suitable  overseas opportunities, especially in producing oil and gas blocks.
In the domain of Alternative & Renewable Energy, the notable  accomplishments of R&D Centre during 2023-24 include: 	 Successful demonstration of the enzyme-assisted CO 2  capture technology 'eCO 2Sorb' at the existing TFL CO 2  capture plant, resulting in a remarkable 21% improvement in  energy efficiency after retrofitting.
Mechanical completion and starting of a 200 TPD paddy  straw-based plant at Gorakhpur for producing CBG.
Development and successful field trials of microbial blend  'StubVorous' for in-situ decomposition of crop residue,  facilitating crop rotation within a short window which has  been validated by District Agriculture Departments.
Continuing with the in-house StartUp initiative, an Open  Innovation Challenge on “Green Resolve - Amrit Kaal Adhyay”  was launched and after 3 levels of rigorous screening,  evaluation & selection, six proposals were selected for  further funding & incubation.
The selected startups have  been on-boarded in April 2024. Business Development Over the years, the Company has spread its wings beyond its  core business and has made significant strides in the fields of  Petrochemicals, Natural Gas, Alternative Energy, Exploration  & Production, and Explosives and has also expanded its  business overseas.
Petrochemicals Your Company is the second largest player in the Indian  petrochemicals market.
During the year, petrochemical sales,  including exports, soared to 3.1 MMT, marking the Company's  highest-ever performance.
During the year, for the first time, PROPEL Polymers and  Monoethylene Glycol (MEG) were offered through Government  e-Marketplace (GeM) portal.
The Product range was enriched  with the addition of two new specialised PPCP (Polypropylene  copolymer) grades 2300MX & 5300MN and a random co-polymer  2120MC.
The introduction of 2300MX, specifically designed for  houseware and food containers, positions the Company as the  sole domestic producer of this premium grade.
In another first,  the Company received mandatory MRS10 rating approval from  Element, Sweden, for its PE 100 Orange & Black compound,  paving the way for the Company to introduce PE Orange  compounds for CGD gas transportation.
The milestone positions  the Company as the first domestic producer in India to offer this  material, substituting imports and boosting Atmanirbharta.
The  Company achieved another milestone with its inaugural import of  LDPE from South Korea, which has helped it enhance its product  offerings range to better serve polymer market demands.
During the year, the Company began marketing 'CYCLOPLAST,'  a proprietary brand of polymer recyclates focused on plastic  neutrality, across its established sales channels, following its  successful launch in 2022-23.
The Company had initiated the 'Unbottled' project in 2022,  with an aim to repurpose waste PET bottles into eco-friendly  IndianOil LNG Station in Chennai Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 114 115  Alternative Energy During the year, the Company achieved highest ever renewable  power generation of 401.50 Million units leading to mitigation of  368.98 TMT of CO2 equivalent emissions through its portfolio of  246.94 MW of Renewable Energy, which consists of 167.60 MW  of wind capacity and 79.34 MW of solar photo voltaic capacity as  on March 31, 2024.
As part of its broader strategy to expand renewable energy  initiatives nationwide, the Company has entered into a non- binding MoU with the Government of Goa and Gujarat Industries  Power Company Ltd., for collaboration in Green Energy/Low  Carbon initiatives.
The Company is the lead implementation agency of SATAT  (Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation),  under which Letters of Intent (LoIs) are issued to entrepreneurs  for setting up plants for supply of CBG to Company’s retail outlets  and direct customers.
The total count of active LoIs stands at  1,596 as on March 31, 2024.
During the year, 8 CBG Plants were  commissioned, taking the tally of commissioned CBG plants  under Company’s fold to 31.
During the year, the Company  commissioned a major CBG plant in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh,  which can process 200 TPD of Paddy Straw.
The Company sold  around 7.8 TMT of CBG during the year through 85 retail outlets  and 2 Industrial Consumers under the brand name 'IndiGreen'.
The Company aims to set up 30 CBG Plants across India through  Joint Venture Companies to achieve its Renewable Energy  aspirations as well as Net-Zero operational emissions 2046  targets.
The Company is also associating with State Agriculture  Universities (Punjab, Raipur, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh)  for undertaking multi location field trials of Fermented Organic  Manure to establish its efficacy and role in yield improvement.
The Company has initiated 21 Expression of Interests (EoIs)  to procure Biodiesel derived from Used Cooking Oil (UCO) in 2  phases, aiming to explore Biofuel for blending purposes.
As  of March 31, 2024, the Company has issued 31 LOIs for the  establishment of Biodiesel plants, with an annual cumulative  capacity of 23.5 Crore Liters.
The Company is engaged in strategic partnerships with  LanzaJet Inc, USA and Praj Industries Ltd., India, aiming to  establish Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) facilities in India.
The  Company plans to set up SAF Plant at Panipat in collaboration  with LanzaJet.
During the year, the Company entered into a non- binding Term Sheet with Praj Industries for formation of 50:50  Joint Venture Company in India for setting up of Sustainable  Aviation Fuel (SAF) and other Biofuel plants comprising Ethanol,  CBG, Biodiesel, Bio-bitumen, etc.
The Company is also exploring  possibility for implementation of large and small modular nuclear  projects through JV route.
The Company intends to expand its green energy portfolio  beyond its own 2046 target requirement, assuming a significantly  greater role in supporting the nation's goal of achieving Net- Zero by 2070.
The Company has incorporated a Wholly Owned  Subsidiary (WoS) “Terra Clean Ltd.” in May 2024 to undertake  low-carbon, innovative, clean, and sustainable energy operations,  demonstrating its dedication to advancing its green initiatives.
Sustainable Development In alignment with the Net-Zero target of 2070 for India, the  Company has also been taking path breaking initiatives on  Sustainability.
In 2023, your Company was ranked as the top  Indian company (ranked 23 rd) in the Transition Score ranking by  BloombergNEF and earned the title of India’s top ranked Oil and  Gas Company in the S&P Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 2023.
The Company’s carbon footprint during the year was ~22.76  MMTCO2e, while total water footprint was ~149.6 Billion litres.
The  Company has committed to achieve Net-Zero emissions while  continuing the efforts towards environment management and  conservation.
The Company also planted more than 1.5 Million  saplings during the year within and beyond our organisational  boundaries, besides undertaking emission mitigation efforts  like energy efficiency, fuel replacement and alternative energy  projects.
The Company is actively working towards rainwater  harvesting and as on March 31, 2024, the Company has a  catchment area of over 2,900 Hectare.
Net-Zero In August 2022, the Company had set the target to achieve Net- Zero operational emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) by 2046.
To  achieve this goal, the Company has developed a comprehensive  plan focused on reducing its carbon footprint by enhancing  renewable energy portfolio, investments in low carbon  technologies, reducing emissions from its value chain, and  establishing climate-linked key performance indicators.
In line  with these commitments, the Company aims to develop a green  energy portfolio comprising 31 GW of renewable energy, 4 MMT  of biofuels, and 1 MMT of biogas by 2030, further scaling up to  200 GW of renewable energy, 7 MMT of biofuels, and 9 MMT of  biogas by 2050.
Strategic partnerships with stakeholders in the  area of renewable energy, sustainable aviation fuel, compressed  biogas, battery storage, electric mobility, nature-based solutions,  green hydrogen, circular economy are being explored to drive   Net-Zero solutions.
Overseas Business To widen its international presence and to tap opportunities for  collaboration and synergies, the Company has been focusing  on regions it finds promising.
In this regard, the Company has  been trying to uncover business prospects in the neighbouring  countries and beyond.
During the year, the Company continued export of products  including Gasoil, Jet A1, Gasoline, AVGAS and Sulphur primarily to  Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Indonesia.
The Company’s persistent  efforts to broaden its market reach, diversify its product offerings,  and explore new trade routes resulted in yet another milestone of  the maiden export of ~17.3 MT of Sulphur to Bangladesh via road  during the year.
The Company is the sole supplier of all major petroleum products  to Nepal since 1975, governed by a General Supply Agreement.
During the year, a Government-to-Government MoU was signed  between the Governments of India and Nepal aiming for  cooperation in building Petroleum Infrastructure and ensuring  the energy security of Nepal by providing cleaner & affordable  petroleum products.
The MoU covers four projects valued at  ₹ 2000 Crore to be constructed by the Company as a unified  project.
In addition, the Company’s WoS IndianOil (Mauritius) Ltd  has formed a joint venture company to build 6000 KLPA Lubricant  Blending Plant in Nepal.
During the year, IndianOil Total Pvt.
Ltd.  (ITPL), a 50:50 Joint Venture Company between IndianOil and  Total Energies France, launched sale of Bitumen Derivatives and  Bitumen Emulsions in Nepal.
In other geographies too, the Company is actively pursuing  strategic collaborations to expand and diversify its portfolio.
In  a strategic move, an MoU was executed between Company’s  WoS IOC Middle East FZE and Orange Group – Gas Station  Development Corporation for collaboration in downstream fuel  retailing in Saudi Arabia.
To harness collaborative opportunities  in various business areas such as LNG, renewables and energy  transition, the Company has signed an MOU with the global  energy and commodities trading giant Vitol.
Explosives The Company holds leadership position in India’s bulk explosives  business.
During the year, the Company enhanced its explosives  manufacturing capabilities with the commissioning of its  13th Bulk Explosives Support Plant with a capacity of 8 KTA at  Basundhara, Sundergarh (Odisha).
The Company is also taking  initiatives towards product diversification and expansion of its  footprints in the Southern and Western India, with its upcoming  Bulk Explosives Plants at Neyveli (Tamil Nadu), Mandamarri  (Telangana) and Majri (Maharashtra).
International Trade Your Company imported 65.18 MMT of Crude Oil during the year,  as against 67.50 MMT in the previous year to meet the crude  requirement for processing at its refineries.
The selection of  Crude Oil is undertaken from a diversified mix of supply sources  to optimise the cost as well as to improve flexibility.
The import  of petroleum products during the year was 9.08 MMT as against  10.11 MMT in the previous year.
Projects Your Company spent a total of ₹ 42,236 Crore during 2023-24,  which includes ₹ 41,524 Crore on projects and ₹ 712 Crore towards  investments in joint ventures & subsidiaries.
The Company single- handedly contributes more than 1/3rd to the total CAPEX incurred  by PSUs under the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas.
Currently,  the Company is executing over 120 projects of varying scales  with cumulative project cost of over ₹ 2.5 Lakh Crore, aimed at  consolidating and enhancing its leadership position in the market.
Your Company is executing several futuristic projects  encompassing Refinery Expansions, Petrochemicals,  Infrastructure and Alternative Energy.
The mega projects of  capacity expansion include Panipat Refinery expansion from 15  to 25 MMTPA, Barauni Refinery expansion from 6 to 9 MMTPA,  Gujarat Refinery expansion under LUPECH project from 13.7 to 18  MMTPA and Digboi Refinery expansion from 0.65 to 1.0 MMTPA, 9  MMTPA grass root refinery project at Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu  through Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (a Joint  Venture Company between IndianOil and CPCL), which are under  different stages of implementation.
To enhance the Company’s  Petrochemical Intensity Index (PII) to around 15% by 2030 from  about 6.11% currently, significant investments are planned in the  Petrochemical sector which include PX/PTA project at Paradip,  Oxo-Alcohol project at Gujarat, Poly Butadiene Rubber at Panipat.
The projects are being implemented with the triple objective of  adding value to the conventional POL streams, taking advantage  of the huge demand growth in the petrochemical sector, and to  become “Atmanirbhar Bharat”.
Your Company is executing various pipeline projects which upon  completion would increase the pipeline network length to around  22,000 Km and enhance capacity to 167.47 MMTPA and 50.73  MMSCMD for liquid and gas pipelines respectively.
IndianOil Rawra Solar Power Project in Rajasthan Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 117  To support the Government’s vision to increase the share of  natural gas in energy mix from 6% to 15% by 2030, your Company  is focused on developing natural gas infrastructure.
This includes  the construction of pipelines, enhancements for using natural  gas within refineries, and expansion of CGD networks in 49 CGD  Geographical Areas allocated to the Company and its Joint Venture  Companies, with the goal to supply natural gas to households,  commercial customers, and CNG stations nationwide.
In addition, your Company is developing a Technology Centre at  its second R&D Campus in Faridabad.
This Technology Centre will  serve as a centre of excellence for research related to alternative  energy and will play a significant role in achieving the Company’s  long-term sustainability goals.
Apart from focusing on its core business, your Company is also  actively focused on adopting greener technologies, which includes  Ethanol blended fuels, CBG, Green Hydrogen production, SAF to  make growing aviation sector cleaner, substituting naphtha with  gas, and exploring alternative fuels.
These initiatives are aimed  at reducing emissions, minimising environmental impact, and  supporting the transition to a more sustainable and environment  friendly energy landscape.
In the long term, the Company aims to increase its share in the  country's energy mix from the current level of ~9% to ~12.5%  by 2050, with renewables and biofuels contributing a quarter of  this share.
While current CAPEX predominantly focuses on core  sectors, significant investments in energy transition and Net-Zero  operations are being planned.
This underscores the Company’s  commitment to growth and expansion, transitioning from core  sectors to sustainable and Net-Zero operations.
By leveraging  innovative technologies and strategic partnerships, your Company  is poised to lead the way in India's energy transformation, ensuring  a balanced and environmentally responsible energy portfolio.
Through these efforts, the Company will not only enhance its  market position but also contribute significantly to the nation's  energy security and sustainability goals.
Health, Safety & Environment (HS&E) Your Company believes that “safety supersedes business  objectives” and is thus committed to be a leader in Occupational  Health, Safety and Environmental Protection by conducting its  business with utmost emphasis on environment protection and  ecological balance; Safety of its people, processes, assets, and  operations; occupational health of its people and value-addition  for its stakeholders.
A well-defined Safety Management System  is in place across the Company and compliance with safety  systems and procedures and environmental laws is monitored at  all levels in the organisation.
The HS&E activities of the Company  are also reviewed periodically by the Board.
During the year 2023- 24, various HS&E activities including awareness programmes,  policy interventions, capability building, and training programmes  were conducted.
Digital Transformation The Company remains committed to customer centric solutions,  with digital innovation at the core of our transformational journey.
The Company’s initiatives exemplify the dedication to customer  care and the mission to be a trusted partner, delivering value to  all stakeholders.
The electronic Platform for IndianOil Customers (ePIC) stands  as the cornerstone of Enterprise Digital Business Solution,  catering comprehensively to the needs of Secondary and Tertiary  Customers.
Over 3 Crore customers are now onboard on the  XTRAREWARDS programme.
The Common LPG Data Platform  (CLDP), a strategic initiative under the aegis of the MoP&NG,  which facilitates the de-duplication of customer master data and  subsidy payments for eligible LPG customers across the OMCs  viz.
IndianOil, BPCL, HPCL, became operational during the year.
During the year, the Company spearheaded digitalisation,  automation, and data-driven decision-making efforts.
Key  achievements include the rollout of various digital solutions,  predictive maintenance initiatives, and the implementation of  Robotic Process Automation (RPA) across functions, optimising  operations and enhancing efficiency.
Some of the notable ones  include the End-to-End Programme Management Suite for cross- divisional project oversight, Refinery Production Scheduler to  optimise production planning, and an Energy Management  System for asset-level utility cost reduction.
The Company has developed a very robust cyber eco-system with  Defence-In-Depth-Width for faster identification, detection and  mitigation of any cyber risks.
The Company has further enhanced  its cyber security through various technological and process  improvements at the same time stricter controls have been put  in place to ensure compliances and a cyber resilient environment.
Human Resources The total strength of employees as on March 31, 2024 was 30,321,  comprising of 18,570 executives and 11,751 non-executives  of which 2,726 were women employees.
During the year, the  Company recruited 840 executives and 134 Non-Executives.
To  further the cause of apprenticeship training in the country, the  Company engaged 3,293 apprentices under various categories  like Trade/Technician/Fresher/skill-certificate holder which  constitutes 10.57% of the total workforce.
The apprentices  were imparted practical inputs with a structured monitoring and  assessment methodology.
The Company scrupulously follows the Presidential Directives  and Guidelines issued by the Government of India regarding  the reservation in services for SC/ST/OBC/PwBD (Persons with  Benchmark Disabilities)/Ex-servicemen/Economically Weaker  Sections (EWSs) to promote inclusive growth.
Rosters are  maintained as per the directives and are regularly inspected by the  Liaison Officer(s) of the Company as well as the Liaison Officer of  the Government of India to ensure proper compliance.
Grievance/ Complaint Registers are also maintained at Division/Region/Unit  levels for registering grievances from OBC/SC/ST employees and  efforts are made to promptly dispose of the representations/ grievances received.
In accordance with the Presidential Directive,  the details of representation of SC/ST/OBC in the prescribed  format are attached as Annexure – I to this Report.
The provisions of 4% reservation for persons with disabilities  in line with the Government of India’s guidelines/instructions  were implemented by the Company.
Necessary concessions/ relaxations in accordance with the rules in this regard were  extended to physically challenged persons in recruitment.
During the year, cordial industrial relations were maintained across  the Company.
The Company provides comprehensive welfare  facilities to its employees to take care of their health, efficiency  and economic betterment and enable them to give their best at  the workplace.
The Company supports participative culture in the  management of the enterprise and has adopted a consultative  approach with collectives, establishing a harmonious relationship  for industrial peace, thereby leading to higher productivity.
During the year, employee centric measures like review of ‘Child  Care Leave’ policy (whereby women employees shall be entitled  to draw their last drawn Basic Pay and DA during the entire  period of Child Care leave); ‘4R4U’ Wellness Initiative (to assist  employees in grappling with issues relating to physical, emotional  & mental health challenges); ‘ Sambal’ (workshops to strengthen  the understanding of the competency framework by executives);  ‘Fempowerment’ (to create more inclusive workplaces for  women); ‘Nav-Urja Nirman: Building a Future in Renewable Energy’  (a talent development intervention to foster in-house expertise  among junior/mid-level officers to navigate the complexities of  renewable energy sectors) were conceived and rolled out.
Particulars of Employees The provisions of Section 134(3)(e) of the Companies Act, 2013  are not applicable to a Government Company.
Consequently,  details on Company’s policy on Directors’ appointment and  other matters as required under Section 178 (3) of the Act,  are not provided.
Similarly, Section 197 of the Act is also exempt for a Government  Company.
Consequently, there is no requirement of disclosure  of the ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median  employee’s remuneration and other such details, including the  statement showing the names and other particulars of every  employee of the Company, who if employed throughout/part  of the financial year, was in receipt of remuneration in excess  of the limits set out in the Rules are not provided in terms  of Section 197 (12) of the Act read with Rule 5 (1)/(2) of the  Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial  Personnel) Rules, 2014.
HSE training programmes organised across IndianOil locations Chairman with IOCians at Western Region Pipelines, Abu Road, Rajasthan Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 118 119  Hindi Implementation Official language implementation in day-to-day functioning at  various offices/locations/units is being ensured as per guidelines  of Rajbhasha Vibhag.
The provisions of the Official Language Act,  1963 and Rules of 1976 notified thereunder were complied with.
The communications received in Hindi including any application,  appeal or representation written or signed in Hindi are replied  in Hindi.
Official Language Implementation Committees (OLIC)  have been formed in all offices/units to monitor the progress &  promote new initiative in official language.
The Parliamentary  Committee on Official Language inspected 23 offices/locations/ units in 2023-24.
During the inspections, Committee commended  the Company’s efforts in implementation of Official Language  across the Company.
Corporate Social Responsibility Your Company is guided by its corporate vision of caring for  the community and the environment.
The Company believes  that CSR is the continuing commitment to conduct its business  activities ethically and contribute to the economic development  while improving the quality of lives of the local community,  especially in the vicinity of its establishments and the society  at large.
The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  thrust areas include ‘Safe drinking water and protection of  water resources’, ‘Healthcare and sanitation’, ‘Education and  employment-enhancing vocational skills’, 'Rural development',  'Environment sustainability', ‘Empowerment of women and  socially/economically backward groups’, etc.
The CSR policy of  the Company can be accessed on the Company website: https:// www.iocl.com/download/ IOC_S&CSR_Policy.pdf.
During the year, as against the CSR budget of ₹ 422.42 Crore (2%  of the average profit of the previous three years ₹ 428.90 Crore  minus excess spent in previous year ₹ 6.48 Crore), the Company  spent a higher sum of ₹ 457.71 Crore to ensure continuity in the  planned CSR activities including many flagship projects resulting  in carry over of ₹ 35.29 Crore for setting off in succeeding years.
A report on the Company’s CSR activities as per the provisions  of the Act, along with CSR highlights for the year is attached as  Annexure - II to this Report.
Right to Information Act (RTI) An elaborate mechanism is in place across the Company to deal  with the matters relating to the Right to Information Act 2005.
To  meet the requirement of the Act and to ensure compliances of  its various provisions, your Company has one designated Nodal  Officer, 31 First Appellate Authorities (FAAs), 41 Central Public  Information Officers (CPIOs) and 41 Assistant Public Information  Officers (APIOs) across all Divisions.
Under the proactive disclosure of the information as per section  4(1)(b), information has been made available on the Company’s  official website – www.iocl.com and is regularly updated as  well.
Your Company has aligned with the On-line RTI portal  of Department of Personnel and Training and, as such, all the  applications/appeals received through the portal, are disposed  off through electronic mode only.
4,100 requests and 523 first appeals were disposed off within the  prescribed timeline, during the year 2023-24.
73 second appeals  were disposed off, by the Central Information Commission,  New Delhi without any observation of penalty imposition/ disciplinary action.
Compliance with the Sexual Harassment of Women at  Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act,  2013 The provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace  (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, have been  implemented across the Company with clear objective of  providing protection to women against sexual harassment at the  workplace and for the prevention and redressal of complaints of  sexual harassment.
Internal Committees have been set up at every  Unit/Region/Head Office level, headed by senior-level women  employee to deal with sexual harassment complaints, if any.
5 complaints of sexual harassment were pending as on  April 1, 2023.
During the year, 8 complaints were received,  and 8 complaints were disposed off.
As on March 31, 2024,  5 complaints are pending.
Regular workshops are held especially for women employees  to bring awareness about their rights and facilities at workplace  and emphasising the provisions of the Act.
Gender sensitisation  programmes for the male employees are also conducted  regularly.
Newly recruited employees in the Company are made  aware of the provisions of the Act and the measures adopted by  the Company to prevent such incidents.
Vigilance The vigilance function operates with an objective to ensure  maintenance of the highest level of integrity throughout the  Company.
The Vigilance department not only acts as a link  between the Company and Central Vigilance Commission  but also advises the organisations in all matters pertaining to  vigilance.
The Vigilance department takes preventive, punitive  and participative measures with emphasis on the preventive  and participative aspects, and also help in establishing effective  internal control systems and procedures for minimising systemic  failures.
During the year, 390 Vigilance Awareness programmes  were conducted, which were attended by over 13,522 employees.
Disciplinary action under applicable Conduct, Discipline and  Appeal Rules 1980 and Certified Standing Orders are taken  by the Company for irregularities/lapses.
During the year 123  Disciplinary matters related to Vigilance cases were disposed  off and 61 cases were pending at the end of the year.
The  cases pertain to irregularities such as indiscipline, dishonesty,  negligence in performance of duty or neglect of work etc.
The  Company continuously and regularly endeavors to ensure fair  and transparent transactions through technology interventions  and system/process review in consultation with Central Vigilance  Commission and internal Vigilance set up.
Public Deposit Scheme The Public Deposit Scheme of the Company was closed with effect  from August 31, 2009.
The Company has not invited any deposits  from the public during the year and no deposits are outstanding  as on March 31, 2024, except the old cases amounting to ₹ 55,000,  which remain unpaid due to unsettled legal/court cases.
Corporate Governance Your Company always endeavours to adhere to the highest  standards of corporate governance, which are within the control of  the Company.
A comprehensive Report on Corporate Governance  inter-alia highlighting the efforts of the Company in ensuring  transparency, integrity and accountability in its functioning has  been incorporated as a separate section, forming a part of the  Annual Report.
The certificate issued by the Practicing Company  Secretary on Compliance with Corporate Governance guidelines  is annexed to the Report on Corporate Governance.
Management’s Discussion & Analysis Report The Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MDA) Report, as  required under Corporate Governance guidelines, has also been  provided as a separate section forming a part of the Annual Report.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report The Company has been publishing its Business Responsibility  and Sustainability Report (BRSR), which encompass crucial  disclosures concerning Environmental, Social, and Governance  practices and is aligned with the 9 principles of the National  Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct.
In line with SEBI  Circular No.
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated  July 12, 2023, the BRSR Core KPI’s have been reasonably assured  by “TUV India Private Limited.” The Company also publishes its  third party assured Sustainability Report in alignment with the  GRI standards.
The annual Sustainability Report underscores  Company’s commitment to transparency, accountability, and  responsible business practices in tackling environmental and  social challenges while striving for a sustainable future.” The  BRSR is hosted on the website of the Company on the link https:// www.iocl.com/business-responsibility-report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee of the Board comprised of three members  as on March 31, 2024, with all Independent Directors.
The  observations/recommendations made by the Audit Committee  during the year were put up to the Board and the same were  accepted by the Board.
Other details of the Audit Committee,  such as its composition, terms of reference, meetings held, etc.,  are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Other Board Committees The details of other Board Committees, their composition and  meetings, are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Code of Conduct The Board of the Company has enunciated a Code of Conduct  for the Directors and Senior Management Personnel, which  was circulated to all concerned and was also hosted on the  Company’s website.
The Directors and Senior Management  Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct  for the year 2023-24.
Risk Management Risk Management plays a vital role in the organisation, serving  as a fundamental pillar of its strategic decision-making process.
The robust risk management framework in the Company not  only minimises potential disruptions and financial losses but  also fosters a resilient and agile organisational ecosystem that  thrives in the face of uncertainty.
With risk management as a  core component of the governance structure, the Company  demonstrated unwavering commitment to prudent and  responsible business practices, driving sustainable growth and  long-term value creation.
The Enterprise Risk Management  framework in the Company encompasses practices relating  to risk identification, assessment and categorisation, analysis,  mitigation and monitoring of the strategic, operational, legal  and compliance risks which is managed through its internally  designed ERM portal as effective risk management serves as the  compass guiding the organisation towards sustainable success,  ensuring proactive identification, assessment, and mitigation  of potential threats while unlocking new possibilities for growth  and innovation.
The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee  (RMC), which oversee risk management activities.
In addition,  Risk Management Compliance Board (RMCB) comprising of  Senior Management Personnel and headed by Chief Risk Officer  has also been formed which periodically reviews the various risks  associated with the Company’s business.
The changes in the Risk Register as suggested by RMCB are made  after approval of RMC.
A report is put up to the Audit Committee  and the Board.
The details of the Risk Management Committee is  provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Internal Financial Controls The Company has put in place adequate internal financial controls  for ensuring efficient conduct of its business in adherence with  laid-down policies; safeguarding of its assets; prevention and  detection of frauds and errors; accuracy and completeness  of the accounting records; and timely preparation of reliable  financial information, which is commensurate with the operations  of the Company.
PwD Skilling Centre at Ernakulam, Kerala supported by IndianOil Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 120 121  The Company has a separate Internal Audit department headed  by an Executive Director, who reports to the Chairman.
The  Internal Audit department has a mix of officials from finance and  technical functions, who carry out extensive audit throughout  the year.
The statutory auditors are also required to issue the  Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls  over financial reporting of the Company under Clause (i) of Sub- Section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act 2013.
The report  issued thereupon has been attached along with the Standalone  and Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively.
The Board believes that systems in place provide a reasonable  assurance that the Company’s internal financial controls are  designed effectively and are operating as intended.
Statutory Auditors The Office of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India had  appointed the Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2023-24.
The Auditors have confirmed that they are not disqualified from  being appointed as Auditors of the Company.
The Auditors’ Report  does not contain any qualification or adverse remark.
In addition,  the Company had also engaged them for Limited Review for the  financial year 2023-24.
The Auditors’ remuneration for the year was fixed at ₹ 2.60  Crore and ₹ 1.50 Crore for Statutory Audit and Limited review  respectively along with applicable taxes and reasonable out of  pocket expenses.
In addition, fees was paid to Statutory Auditors  for other certification jobs.
The total amount paid/payable to  the Statutory Auditors for all services rendered to the Company  during 2023-24 was ₹ 5.30 Crore Reporting of Frauds by Auditors The Auditors in their report for the year have not reported  any instance of fraud committed by the officers/employees  of the Company.
Comptroller and Auditor General of India (C&AG) Audit Supplementary Audit of Financial Statements:  The Standalone  and Consolidated Financial Statements for the Financial  Year ended March 31, 2024, were submitted to the C&AG for  supplementary audit.
The C&AG has conducted supplementary  audit and issued NIL comment.
The NIL comment certificate is  attached in this Annual Report after the Financial Statements.
This is the 18th consecutive year that your Company has received  such NIL comment on its Financial Statement.
C&AG paras from other audits : In addition to the supplementary  audit of the financial statements mentioned above, the C&AG  conducts audits of various nature including Performance audit,  Compliance audit, Thematic audit, Proprietary audit, etc.
As on  March 31, 2024, there are twenty-one pending audit paras on  various subjects including Short realisation from Disposal of a land,  Abandoned Exploration & Production (E&P) Project, Maintenance  of grade-wise costing of Petrochemicals, Extra cost due to delay  in finalisation of tender, Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna (PMUY) to  unentitled persons, Avoidable entry tax, Updation of daily price  change at Retail Outlets, Recovery of turnover tax, Expenditure  turning infructuous due to non-adherence to pollution clearance  requirement, Utilization of spectrum, Procurement from MSME,  Infructuous expenditure due to participation in a low hydrocarbon  and risky E&P block, Supply logistics of petroleum products and  Employee benefits like EPF contribution on leave encashment,  Encashment of earned leave and sick leave, Stagnation relief,  Performance related pay, Shift allowance, Project allowance, Long  service award, Conveyance running and maintenance expenses.
The replies to these paras have been submitted and the status  reports are also being furnished from time to time.
Cost Audit The Company maintains cost records as required under the  provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
The Company had  appointed Cost Auditors for conducting the audit of the cost  records maintained by the refineries, lube blending plants and  other units for 2023-24.
A remuneration of ₹ 22.70 Lakh and  applicable taxes was fixed by the Board for payment to the cost  auditors for 2023-24, which was ratified by the shareholders in  the last AGM.
The cost audit reports were filed by the Central Cost  Auditor with the Central Government in the prescribed form within  the stipulated time.
Secretarial Audit The Board had appointed Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries,  to conduct the Secretarial Audit for 2023-24.
The Secretarial  Auditor in their report have stated that during the period under  review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act,  Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc., except as under: 	 the requirement of having atleast one-Woman Independent  Director during the year.
the requirement of having at least half of the Board of  Directors as Independent Director for the period April 1, 2023  to May 2, 2023 and January 16, 2024 to March 31, 2024 In this regard, it is clarified that the Company being a Government  Company under the administrative control of the MoP&NG, the  selection, appointment of Directors, (including Independent  Director and Women Director) terms and conditions and  remuneration of functional directors, vests with the Government  of India as per Government guidelines.
Further, the Ministry  of Corporate Affairs, vide notification dated June 5, 2015, has  provided exemption to Government Companies, regarding the  provisions related to evaluation of performance of Directors  under the Companies Act, 2013, as the evaluation is carried out  by the administrative ministry.
The Secretarial Audit report for the year ended March 31, 2024,  issued by Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, is attached as  Annexure - III to this report.
Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small  Enterprises (MSEs) Order 2012 In line with the Public Procurement Policy of the Government of  India, as amended, the Company is required to procure minimum  25% of the total procurement of Goods and Services from MSEs,  out of which 4% is earmarked for procurement from MSEs owned  by SC/ST entrepreneurs and 3% from MSEs owned by women.
The procurement from MSEs (excluding crude oil, petroleum products & natural gas, API line pipes, proprietary items and single line  items of value greater than ₹ 50 Crore) during the year was as under:  2023-24 2022-23  PARAMETERS TARGET ACTUAL TARGET ACTUAL Total procurement from MSEs (General, SC/ST &  Women) 25%  42.64% 25% 29.21% Procurement from SC/ST MSEs 4%   (Sub-target out of 25%)  1.78% 4%   (Sub-target out of 25%) 0.86% Procurement from Women owned MSEs 3%   (Sub-target out of 25%)  0.92% 3%   (Sub-target out of 25%) 0.35% IndianOil expanding its Green Energy Portfolio The deficit of 2.22% and 2.08% under the sub-targets was due  to non-availability of vendors in the sub-category; however, the  overall target was achieved by procurement from other MSE’s in  line with the policy.
Several initiatives were undertaken to identify the entrepreneurs  for procurement of goods and services from MSEs owned  by SC/ST and women enterprises, including 133 of vendor  development programmes.
Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures & Associates In June 2023, a Joint Venture Company named IndianOil NTPC  Green Energy Pvt.
Ltd. to Develop grid and/or off-grid Renewable  Energy (RE) based power projects was incorporated.
In August  2023, another Joint Venture Company named GH4India Pvt.
Ltd.  to develop green hydrogen production assets and associated  renewable assets was incorporated.
In June 2024, another joint  venture Company named IOC GPS Renewables Pvt.
Ltd. for   integrating advanced biogas technologies to convert organic  waste into CBG was incorporated.
In May 2024, a new WoS “Terra Clean Ltd.” was incorporated to  undertake low-carbon, innovative, clean, and sustainable energy  operations, demonstrating its dedication to advancing its green  initiatives.
Further, in May 2024, Mercator Petroleum Ltd. became  a WoS of the Company consequent upon acquisition of the  company under Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process.
As required under the provisions of the Act, a statement on the  performance and financial position of each of the subsidiaries,  joint venture companies and associates is annexed to the  Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements of  the subsidiaries have also been hosted on the Company website  www.iocl.com under the ‘Financial Performance’ section.
In accordance with the provisions of SEBI guidelines, your  Company has framed a policy for determining material  subsidiaries, which can be accessed on the Company’s website at  https:///www.iocl.com/download/Material_Subsidiary_Policy.pdf.
Related Party Transactions (RPTs) In line with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 & SEBI  (LODR) as amended from time to time, a policy on material RPTs  has been framed, which can be accessed at: https://www.iocl.
com/download/ Policies/RPT_Policy.pdf.
During the year, the Company had entered into transactions with  related parties, which could be considered material in accordance  with the policy of the Company on materiality of related party  transactions.
The Company has obtained the approval of Audit  Committee as well as Shareholders for such material RPTs as per  the provisions of the SEBI (LODR).
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 122 123  Further, all such RPTs were on arm’s length basis and in  the ordinary course of business and approved by the Audit  Committee.
Therefore, there is no transaction which needs to  be reported in Form No.
AOC-2, in terms of Section 134(3)(h)  read with Section 188 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies  (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
The disclosures related to RPTs in accordance with applicable  accounting standards are provided at Note-37 of the Standalone  Financial Statement.
Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption and  Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo Energy conservation is accorded utmost importance across  the Company.
The performance of all units is monitored on a  continuous basis and efforts are made for improvement by  utilising the latest technologies and global best practices.
The  various energy conservation measures implemented across the  refineries during the year, resulted in energy savings as well as  monetary savings.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  and rules notified thereunder, the details relating to Energy  Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange  Earnings and Outgo are annexed as Annexure - IV to the Report.
Board of Directors & Key Managerial Personnel The following changes occurred in the Board/Key Managerial  Personnel of the Company: 1.
Dr S S V Ramakumar ceased to be a Director (Research  & Development) w.e.f.
August 1, 2023 consequent upon  completion of his tenure.
2.
Shri N Senthil Kumar was appointed as Director (Pipelines)  w.e.f.
August 14, 2023.
3.
Shri Anuj Jain was appointed as Director (Finance) w.e.f.
October 9, 2023 (A/N).
4.
Shri Sanjay Kaushal ceased to be a Chief Financial Officer  w.e.f.
October 9, 2023 (F/N).
5.
Shri Alok Sharma was appointed as Director (Research &  Development) w.e.f.
January 16, 2024.
6.
Ms Rashmi Govil was appointed as Director (Human  Resources) w.e.f.
March 15, 2024.
7.
Ms Sukla Mistry ceased to be a Director (Refineries) w.e.f.
May 1, 2024 consequent upon completion of her tenure.
8.
Shri Sunil Kumar, Government Nominee Director ceased to  be a Director w.e.f.
May 7, 2024 consequent upon completion  of his tenure in MoP&NG.
9.
Dr Sujata Sharma was appointed as a Government Nominee  Director w.e.f.
May 11, 2024.
10.
Shri Arvind Kumar was appointed as Director (Refineries)  w.e.f.
July 17, 2024.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury, Director (Planning & Business Development)  is liable to retire by rotation and being eligible is proposed to be  re-appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The brief profile of Shri Sujoy Choudhury is provided in the  notice of the AGM.
Independent Directors The Company has received the Certificate of Independence from  the Independent Directors confirming that they meet the criteria  prescribed for Independent Directors under the provisions of  the Companies Act, 2013, and SEBI (LODR).
The Independent  Directors have confirmed that they are registered with the  database maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs  (IICA) under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
The Company being a Government Company, the power to  appoint Directors (including Independent Directors) vests with  the Government of India.
The Directors are appointed by following  a process as per laid down guidelines.
In the opinion of the  Board, the Independent Directors possess the desired expertise,  experience and integrity.
A separate meeting of Independent Directors was held during the  year as per provisions of the Act and SEBI (LODR).
Board Meetings During the year, 15 meetings of the Board of Directors were  held.
The details of the meetings attended by each Director are  provided in the Corporate Governance Report and, hence, not  repeated to avoid duplication.
Board Evaluation The provisions of Section 134(3)(p) of the Companies Act, 2013,  require a listed entity to include a statement indicating the manner  of formal evaluation of performance of the Board, its Committees  and of individual Directors.
However, the said provisions are  exempt for Government Companies as the performance  evaluation of the Directors is carried out by the administrative  ministry, i.e., MoP&NG as per laid-down evaluation methodology.
Significant and Material Orders Passed by the  Regulators or Courts No significant and material orders were passed by the regulators  or courts or tribunals, during the year that impact the going  concern status of the Company and its operations in the future.
Vigil Mechanism/Whistle-Blower Policy The Company promotes ethical behaviour in all its business  activities and has put in place a mechanism for reporting illegal  or unethical behaviour.
The Company has established a robust  Vigil Mechanism and a whistle-blower policy in accordance with  provisions of the Act and Listing Regulations.
Under the whistle- blower policy, employees are free to report any improper activity  resulting in violation of laws, rules, regulations, or code of conduct  by any of the employees to the Competent Authority or Chairman  of the Audit Committee, as the case may be.
Any complaint  received is reviewed by the Competent Authority or Chairman  of the Audit Committee as the case may be.
No employee has  been denied access to the Audit Committee.
The policy on Vigil  Mechanism/Whistle-Blower can be accessed on the Company’s  website at: https://www.iocl.com/InvestorCenter/pdf/Whistle_ Blower_policy.pdf.
Details of Loans/Investments/Guarantees The Company has provided loans/guarantees to its subsidiaries,  joint ventures and associates and made investments during  the year in compliance with the provisions of the Act and rules  notified thereunder.
The details of such investments made, and  loans/guarantees provided as on March 31, 2024 are provided in  Note No.
4, 36, 37 and 42 of the Standalone Financial Statement.
Annual Return As required under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  the draft Annual Return for the year 2023-24 is hosted on the  Company’s website and can be accessed from the link: https:// www.iocl.com/annual-return.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards The Company complies with the applicable Secretarial Standards  issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).
Credit Rating of Securities The credit rating assigned by rating agencies for the various  debt instruments of the Company is provided in the Corporate  Governance Report.
As required under SEBI (LODR), the  Audit Committee had a meeting with Credit Rating Agencies  in March 2024.
Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF) The details of unpaid/unclaimed dividend and shares transferred  to the IEPF in compliance with the provisions of the Companies  Act, 2013, are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Material changes affecting the Company There have been no material changes and commitments,  affecting the financial position of the Company between the  end of the financial year and date of this report.
There has  been no change in the nature of the business of the Company.
Details of application made or any proceeding pending  under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31  of 2016) during the year along with their status as at  the end of the financial year  No applications were made during the financial year and no  proceedings are pending against the Company under the  Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016.
Details of the difference between the amount of the  valuation done at the time of one-time settlement and  the valuation done while taking a loan from the banks  or financial institutions along with the reasons thereof There were no instances of one-time settlements during the  financial year.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013  pertaining to the Directors’ Responsibility Statement, it is hereby  confirmed that: (a) in the preparation of the Annual Accounts, the applicable  accounting standards had been followed alongwith proper  explanation relating to material departures; (b) the Directors had selected such accounting policies and  applied them consistently and made judgements and  estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a  true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at  the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of the  Company for that period; (c) the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care for  the maintenance of adequate accounting records in  accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; (d) the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on a going  concern basis;  (e) the Directors had laid down internal financial controls to be  followed by the Company and that such internal financial  controls are adequate and were operating effectively.
(f) the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure  compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and  that such systems were adequate and operating effectively.
Acknowledgements The Board would like to express its appreciation for the sincere,  dedicated and untiring efforts of the employees of the Company,  the contract labour, and employees of business channel partners  to ensure the supply of petroleum products across the country.
The Board would also like to thank the Government of India,  particularly the MoP&NG, as well as various State Governments,  regulatory and statutory authorities, for their support and  guidance from time to time.
The Board also acknowledges  the invaluable support extended by all stakeholders, including  bankers, investors, members, customers, consultants, technology  licensors, contractors, vendors, etc.
The Board would like to place  on record its highest appreciation for the valuable guidance  and significant contribution made by Dr S S V  Ramakumar,  Ms Sukla Mistry and Shri Sunil Kumar, during their tenure on the  Board of the Company For and on behalf of the Board Sd/- (Shrikant Madhav Vaidya) Place: New Delhi Chairman Date: July 17, 2024 DIN: 06995642 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 124 125  ANNEXURE - I SC/ST/OBC Report - I Annual Statement on the representation of SCs, STs and OBCs as on January 1, 2024 and number of appointments made  during the preceding calendar year SC/ST/OBC Report - II Annual Statement on the representation of SCs, STs and OBCs in various group A services as on January 1, 2024  and  number of appointments made in the service in various grades in the preceding calendar year Number of appointments made during the calendar year 2023 Representation of SCs/STs/OBCs  (As on 01.01.2024) By Direct Recruitment By Promotion By Deputation/ Absorption Groups Total No.
of  Employees SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs Total SCs STs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Executives A 18641 3153 1397 5030 857 125 66 326 3403 580 238 - - - Non-executives B 4076 664 426 585 - - - - 246 45 16 - - - C 7575 1361 594 2604 140 24 14 62 1604 306 123 - - - D (Excluding  Sweeper) 253 41 22 82 73 14 7 27 - - - - - - D (Sweeper) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Total (Executives plus  Non-executives) 30545 5219 2439 8301 1070 163 87 415 5253 931 377 - - - Number of appointments made during the calendar year 2023 Representation of SCs/STs/OBCs  (As on 01.01.2024) By Direct Recruitment By Promotion By Deputation/ Absorption Pay Scale (in J) Total No.
of  Employees SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs OBCs Total SCs STs Total SCs STs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 40000 - 140000 138 25 5 48 17 4 1 4 - - - - - - 50000 -160000 3305 567 233 1121 819 118 65 319 141 32 5 - - - 60000 - 180000 329 36 12 93 17 3 - 3 63 9 3 - - - 70000 - 200000 4964 784 392 1539 No recruitment is made in this Group 789 130 59 - - - 80000 - 220000 3878 635 277 1143 1 - - - 1054 178 73 - - - 90000 - 240000 2330 442 174 507 3 - - - 540 98 35 - - - 100000 - 260000 1360 239 139 290 No recruitment is made in this Group 324 51 30 - - - 120000 - 280000 1266 259 107 212 No recruitment is made in this Group 227 38 19 - - - 120000 - 280000 710 121 42 67 No recruitment is made in this Group 155 30 10 - - - 120000 - 280000 271 35 14 8 No recruitment is made in this Group 75 10 4 - - - 150000 - 300000 90 10 2 2 No recruitment is made in this Group 35 4 - - - - Grand Total 18641 3153 1397 5030 857 125 66 326 3403 580 238 - - - Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 126  ANNEXURE - II Highlights of CSR Activities The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives  represent a concerted effort to elevate societal well-being and  foster sustainable development.
With the comprehensive approach,  the Company targets various thrust areas, including healthcare,  sanitation, clean drinking water, education, skill development, rural  development, environmental sustainability, empowering women  and socially/economically disadvantaged groups.
Notably, the  Company’s commitment extends beyond mere compliance as  it surpasses the mandated CSR budget (2% of the average net  profit of the preceding three financial years) stipulated under the  Companies Act, 2013, reflecting the Company's ethos of responsible  corporate citizenship.
During 2023-24, the Company allocated a substantial portion of its  CSR budget, amounting to H 290.03 Crore (63.36% of the total CSR  expenditure) to the thematic areas of ‘Health and Nutrition’ as per  the guidelines set forth by the Department of Public Enterprises  (DPEs) for CSR expenditure by Central Public Sector Enterprises  (CPSEs).
Further, the Company demonstrated its commitment to  the upliftment of aspirational districts by spending H  47.26 Crore  in 40 aspirational districts during the year, assigned by the DPEs.
Throughout the year, the Company undertook 600 community  development projects, spanning a diverse array of initiatives  nationwide.
These endeavours have left a positive imprint on  countless stakeholders, enriching the lives of individuals and  communities alike.
By championing such initiatives, the Company  exemplifies its dedication to societal welfare and its role as a  catalyst for positive changes in the communities it serves.
KEY CSR INITIATIVES DURING 2023-24 Few of the major CSR activities during the year are as under: Intensive TB Elimination Programme As per the World Health Organisation (WHO) report 2023,  an  estimated 10.6 Million people worldwide developed tuberculosis  (TB) in 2022, higher from the estimated population of 10.3 Million  in 2021 and 10 Million in 2020.
In line with the vision of the  Honourable Prime Minister, the Government of India is committed  to eradicate TB by 2025, five years ahead of the UN Sustainable  Development Goals.
During 2023-24, the Company, under its CSR initiative of Intensive  TB elimination programme, spread its wings to various states of the  country including Tamil Nadu and Haryana, wherein the Company  provided 192 TB diagnostic (rapid molecular test) machines to Tamil  Nadu and 22 handheld X-ray Machines to Haryana.
These initiatives  are in addition to the earlier molecular diagnostic machines provided  to the states of Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand and  Maharashtra.
Upto 2023-24, through these equipment, more than 1  Lakh individuals have undergone testing, resulting in identification of  more than 14,000 positive cases.
The Company is also supporting various TB patients by providing  nutrition kits under “Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyan”.
The  Company incurred an expenditure of  H 40.62 Crore during 2023- 24 and around H 72.31 Crore till date for elimination of the disease.
Comprehensive Cancer Care According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer  (IARC), an agency of the WHO,  over 35 Million new cancer cases  are predicted by 2050 globally, reflecting a 77% increase from the  estimated 20 Million cases till 2022.
As a responsible corporate,  the Company has come up with a focused approach towards  providing affordable cancer care treatment to all.
In the last few years, the Company has contributed towards the  phase-ii expansion of Tata Medical Centre at Kolkata, provided  various cancer care equipment at hospitals in Delhi, Barpeta,  Muzzafarpur, Varanasi, Sangrur, Mumbai, Vizag, Guwahati, etc.,  amounting to around H 162 Crore During 2023-24, the Company  made provision for various cancer care equipment at Silchar  Cancer Centre, Silchar; Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan  Malviya Cancer Centre, Varanasi; Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital,  Muzaffarpur; Dr B Barooah Cancer Institute, Guwahati, Homi  Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Mullanpur and  Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Visakhapatnam etc.
The cancer care equipment provided to these hospitals shall  touch lives of around One Lakh patients annually MoU signing ceremony between IndianOil and Govt.
of  Tamil Nadu for Intensive TB Elimination Project Sickle Cell Anaemia (SCA) Eradication Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) is an inherited red blood cell disorder  which leads to various complications in the body like acute and  chronic pain, severe anaemia, kidney dysfunction, stroke, etc.
SCD is commonly detected among the tribal population in India.
The Honourable Prime Minister of India launched the National  Sickle Cell Anaemia Elimination Mission in July 2023 with the aim  to eliminate sickle cell disease from India by 2047.
In line with  this initiative, the Company, in collaboration with Indian Institute  of Science (IISc), Bengaluru and the Government of Karnataka is  undertaking a Comprehensive Screening and Health Management  Programme for Sickle Cell Anaemia (SCA) eradication in tribal  areas of Karnataka by incorporating a point of care device for  screening and testing.
The project aims for screening and testing  of around 2.56 Lakh tribal population of three districts (Mysore,  Chamarajanagar and Kodagu) of Karnataka including genetic  counselling, for a period of two years starting from 2024-25.
Project Drishti ‘Project Drishti’, a CSR initiative of the Company, aims to facilitate the journey of blind and visually impaired (VI) community towards  independence and living a life of dignity.
The project provides cutting-edge AI-powered assisting devices known as Smart Vision Glasses  (SVGs).
These innovative glasses, equipped with AI utilise advanced technologies such as Machine Vision and Machine Learning,  offering a wide range of features including object identification, multi-language book reading, walking assistance, facial recognition,  emergency assistance, currency detection and more.
Project Drishti has benefitted more than 800 individuals in the cities of Mumbai,  Pune, New Delhi and Ahmedabad.
During 2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure of around H 2.31 Crore under this initiative.
Inauguration ceremony of Preventive Oncology Section  and oncology equipment provided by IndianOil in  Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre,  Mullanpur, Punjab HPOS device to be used for screening and testing of  Sickle Cell Anaemia Chairman interacting with PwDs during distribution of Smart Vision Glasses (SVGs) to the beneficiaries Project Aakash: Drone Health Care Service The Company is pioneering a healthcare initiative in Kandhamal  district, Odisha, by utilising drones to enhance healthcare  accessibility in remote areas.
This innovative project facilitates  aerial delivery of medical supplies including diagnostic reports,  vaccines and medicines, to primary and community health  centres, bridging the gaps in healthcare infrastructure.
Under this project, a drone network has been set up to connect  healthcare facilities in the remote areas of Tumudibandh  and Kotagarh to the district hospital in Phulbani.
The drone  network delivers medical products benefitting more than 25,000  underprivileged people in remote areas of Kandhamal district.
During 2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure of around  H 76 Lakh under this initiative.
Bringing healthcare to the remote areas of Kandhamal  District, Odisha Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 128 129  Project Madhur ‘Project Madhur’ aims to empower remote tribal communities of  Tamil Nadu and in various districts of Haryana by introducing them  to the practice of scientific beekeeping.
By imparting knowledge on  Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) on Wheels To strengthen the health infrastucture of aspirational district  Narmada in Gujarat, the Company provided a Neonatal Intensive  Care Unit (NICU) on Wheels under CSR to Narmada District  Authority.
Given the vulnerability of new-borns and the critical  nature of the care they require, having NICU-equipped ambulances  in remote areas of the Narmada District can significantly reduce  neonatal mortality rates.
NICU will serve as a lifeline, ensuring  timely transport of new-borns to specialised NICU facilities.
It is  equipped with advanced medical equipment to take care of new- borns during transit to referral hospitals, thereby maximising the  chances of survival for new-borns in critical conditions.
During  2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure of around H 59  Lakh under this project.
Training in beekeeping for local communities at  Kurukshetra, Haryana Handing over of the NICU on wheels facility to CMO, Civil  Hospital, Narmada, Gujarat modern techniques of bee rearing, honey extraction and harvesting,  which are organic and sustainable, the project enhances the  livelihoods of villagers and contributes to their nutritional security.
Through this endeavour, villagers learn to work with honeybees  in such a way that it preserves their well-being, ensures the  sustainability of the bee population and improve the biodiversity of  the region.
Moreover, by establishing market linkages, this project  ensures greater market acceptability for locally produced honey,  thereby creating economic opportunities for the communities  involved.
During 2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure  of around H 60 Lakh under this initiative.
Project Divyajyoti: Skill development for Differently Abled In the area of Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, the Company  undertook “Project Divyajyoti" to train 80 ‘Divyangjans’ for roles  in customer care and retail sales.
This is a  fully residential  programme, conducted in partnership with the Skill Council for  Persons with Disability (SCPwD).
It aims to equip participants  with essential skills for professional success.
The project  facilitates candidates for getting employment in renowned  companies such as Big Basket, Reliance Trends and Niva Bupa.
Simultaneously, in Ernakulam District, Kerala, skill training was  provided to 75 ‘Divyangjans’ with locomotive disabilities in the  data entry operations.
The project ensured a stigma-free learning  environment, supplemented by regular visits from dieticians  and physiotherapists for holistic well-being.
During 2023-24, the  Company incurred an expenditure of around H 95 Lakh under  this initiative.
By equipping them with skills in sectors such as retail and tourism,  'Pratidhi' strives to integrate transgender, into mainstream  employment, mitigating the social disadvantages they face.
The three months, inclusive of classroom and hands-on training  is followed by placement fairs to facilitate job placements for  the candidates.
During 2023-24, the Company incurred an  expenditure of around H 24 Lakh under this initiative.
Enhancing healthcare infrastructure at Ramakrishna Mission  Hospital, Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh The Company’s CSR initiative of providing medical equipment to  the 283 bedded multispecialty Ramakrishna Mission Hospital,  a branch of the Ramakrishna Mission, Belur Math in Itanagar,  Arunachal Pradesh, is a testament to its commitment to  societal welfare.
Under this initiative, the Company sponsored various critical  medical equipment including the OCT machine (for eye  diagnostics), laparoscopic machine set (used for laparoscopic  surgeries), C Arm (used during orthopaedic, urology and other  complicated surgical procedures) and an advanced life support  ambulance to the hospital, making significant contribution  towards enhancing the healthcare services for those in need.
This initiative is expected to benefit over 20,000 patients annually,  particularly from socially and economically disadvantaged  backgrounds.
Till 2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure  of around H 94 Lakh under this initiative.
a remarkable 100% placement record.
During 2023-24, the  Company incurred an expenditure of around H 3.93 Crore  under this project.
Skill development programme for differently abled at  Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh Interaction with transgender beneficiaries during skill  training session in Mumbai Assam Oil School of Nursing, Digboi IndianOil Vidushi "IndianOil Vidushi" launched in 2018, offers specialised coaching  and mentorship to young women after completing their class XII  education, preparing them for competitive engineering exams.
Since its inception, ‘Vidushi’ has made a significant impact,  transforming the lives of 592 girls.
Among them, 59 have secured  admissions in IITs, 123 in NITs and 231 girls are in various  government engineering colleges.
In the academic year 2023-24,  out of the 60 Vidushis, 24 girls have qualified the JEE Mains 2024  exam and 8 girls have qualified in JEE advanced exam.
During  2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure of around H 3.22  Crore under this initiative.
Assam Oil School of Nursing, Digboi, Assam The Assam Oil School of Nursing (AOSN) has emerged as a  beacon of hope and opportunity since its establishment in 1986.
AOSN offers a 3-year diploma programme in General Nursing and  Midwifery (GNM) and a 4-year B.Sc.
(Nursing) course.
With an  annual intake of 30 students, the GNM programme equips young  women with the skills and knowledge for a career in nursing.
Since  2014, the institution has expanded its offering, including B.Sc.
(Nursing) course with an annual intake of 30 female students,  further broadening horizons for its students.
AOSN's impact is evident in its impressive track record.
Since its  establishment, with 554 graduates from the GNM programme  and 145 from the B.Sc.
(Nursing) course, the institution boasts  IndianOil Pratidhi: Skill Development for Transgender The Company’s CSR endeavour, 'Pratidhi', meaning 'hope' in  Sanskrit, shows the Company’s commitment to fostering positive  change and inclusivity.
In collaboration with the National Skill  Development Corporation (NSDC), New Delhi, the project aimed  at providing skill training to 180 transgender, in Mumbai, a  community often marginalised and underserved.
Vidushi scholars at Jaipur Centre Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 130 131  IndianOil Foundation (IOF) Projects The Company, through the IndianOil Foundation (IOF), has been  working towards promotion of Indian art and culture including  development of tourist-friendly facilities in and around sites of  archaeological importance.
In Varanasi, with the completion of  renovation of phase-2 of Namo Ghat, it has become the longest  and the most accessible ghat in the city.
The addition of modern  facilities such as wide promenades, a multipurpose platform  and water sports areas, enriches the visitor’s experience while  preserving cultural heritage.
In Hyderabad, the Company’s efforts have revitalised the  Golconda Fort and Charminar through façade illuminations,  multimedia shows and solar-powered solutions.
Furthermore,  the façade illumination works at Warangal Fort, Lucknow  and various monuments in Bundi contribute to the night-time  aesthetics and cultural preservation of these monuments.
On an  average, everyday about 20,000 tourists visit these monuments.
The Company contributed H 60 Crore during 2023-24 to the IOF  towards its various CSR projects.
Aerial View of Namo Ghat at Varanasi developed by the  IndianOil Foundation Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh In Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, the Swarna Jayanti Samudayik  Hospital stands as a testament to the Company’s dedication  to delivering quality healthcare services to the community.
Established in 1999, this 50 bedded facility has been a cornerstone  of comprehensive medical care for the residents of Mathura and  its surrounding areas.
With modern infrastructure and cutting-edge medical facilities,  the hospital ensures the delivery of high-quality healthcare  services to all who seek its assistance.
From well-equipped  operation theaters to advanced diagnostic laboratories, Intensive  Care Units (ICUs) and specialised departments covering various  medical disciplines, Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital leaves  no stone unturned in meeting the diverse healthcare needs  of the populace.
The hospital also extends its reach to the community through  regular health camps, awareness programmes and medical  check-ups in nearby villages.
With an annual patient count  exceeding 50,000, the hospital symbolises a bastion of hope and  health.
During 2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure of  around H 5.61 Crore under this project.
Assam Oil Division Hospital, Digboi, Assam Commissioned in 1901, Digboi Refinery serves as a symbol of  India's industrial legacy, boasting the distinction of being the  country's oldest functioning refinery and one of the world's oldest  operating refineries.
Amidst this historic backdrop, the Assam Oil  Division (AOD) Hospital in Digboi was established in 1906, initially  serving as a basic healthcare facility for refinery employees.
Over  the decades, it has transformed into a modern multi-specialty  hospital, not only catering to the medical needs of IndianOil  personnel and their families, but also extending its services to  communities in the remote north-eastern region of India.
In addition to its core services, the AOD Hospital actively engages  in community health camps and undertakes initiatives to promote  public healthcare and awareness.
Treating on an average  more than 6,700 patients each year, the AOD Hospital remains  committed to its tradition of delivering outstanding healthcare  in the northeast India.
During 2023-24, the Company incurred an  expenditure of around H 5.50 Crore under this project.
Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital at  Mathura, Uttar Pradesh Illuminated façade of Golconda Fort, Hyderabad, powered  by the IndianOil Foundation AOD Hospital at Digboi, Assam K D Malviya National Oil Museum With the objectives of preserving the history of the petroleum  industry in India and to create awareness among the people  about the richness of this industry’s heritage, the Company, in  collaboration with K D Malviya National Oil Museum Trust and  Oil sector PSUs is contributing towards setting up the KD Malviya  National Oil Museum at Guwahati.
Aligned with the Hydrocarbon  Vision 2023 for Northeast, the Museum will showcase the entire  hydrocarbon value chain through its five galleries, auditorium,  3-D theatre and outdoor science park.
In 2023-24, the Company  contributed H 10.38 Crore under this initiative.
IndianOil Acers: Sports Scholarship Scheme “IndianOil Acers”, a sports scholarship scheme, intends to support  and nurture the athletic talents of the young athletes in India.
The scheme aims to identify and provide financial assistance  to promising sports talent across various disciplines, helping  them to achieve their full potential in sports.
Under this scheme,  deserving athletes are selected based on their performance and  potential in their respective athletic fields.
The scholarship offers  financial support to cover training expenses, coaching fees,  equipment costs and other necessary requirements to enhance  their sporting journey.
During 2023-24, 213 sports persons got benefitted with the  scheme out of which 110 were females.
The Company incurred an  expenditure of around H 6.23 Crore under this initiative in 2023-24.
K D Malviya National Oil Museum at Guwahati, Assam Sports scholars ( 1  Vaishnavi Phalke – Hockey, 2  Esha Singh – Shooting, 3  Aditi Swami – Archery,  4  Aman Sehrawat - Wrestling, 5  Raiza Dhillon – Skeet Shooting and 6  Aneesh Gowda – Swimming) 1 2 4 6 3 5 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 132 133  ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24 1.
A brief outline of the Company's CSR policy  IndianOil's CSR initiatives are driven by its corporate vision of nurturing both the environment and the community.
The Company  views CSR as an ongoing pledge to conduct business responsibly and sustainably, thereby contributing to the economic prosperity  of the nation.
Moreover, it aims to enhance the quality of life for local communities surrounding its establishments and Contribute  towards the upliftment of the  society as a whole.
IndianOil’s Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (S&CSR) vision is to operate its activities in providing energy solutions  to its customers in an efficient, safe and ethical manner, which optimises the impact on environment and enhances quality of life  of the community, while ensuring sustainable growth of business and the nation 2.
Composition of the CSR and Sustainable Development Committee Sl.
No.
Name of Director Designation/Nature of Directorship Number of meetings  of CSR Committee  held during the year  (eligible to attend) Number of meetings  of CSR Committee  attended during the  year 1 Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant Independent Director/Member of the  Committee and Chairperson of the  Committee (w.e.f.
24.06.2023) 9 9 2 Shri Prasenjit Biswas   (w.e.f.
24.06.2023) Independent Director/Member of the  Committee 8 8 3 Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing)/Member of the  Committee 9 7 4 Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning and Business  Development)/Member of the Committee 9 9 5 Shri Anuj Jain  (w.e.f.
09.10.2023- A/N) Director (Finance)/Member of the  Committee 6 6 6 Ms Rashmi Govil   (w.e.f.
15.03.2024) Director (Human Resources)/Member of  the Committee 1 1 7 Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker  (upto 23.06.2023) Independent Director/Chairperson of the  Committee 1 1 8 Shri Sanjay Kaushal   (upto 09.10.2023- F/N) Chief Financial Officer/Member of the  Committee 3 2 3.
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are disclosed on  the website of the Company.
Composition of CSR&SD committee: https://iocl.com/InvestorCenter/PDF/Board-Committees.pdf Sustainability and CSR Policy: https://iocl.com/download/IndianOils_Sustainability_and_CSR_Policy.pdf CSR projects approved by the Board: https://iocl.com/pages/board-approved-csr-projects 4.
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule  (3) of rule 8, if applicable   In pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, Impact assessment of  following projects was conducted:  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT  At the core of IndianOil operations lies a robust Sustainability  and Corporate Social Responsibility (S&CSR) vision, aimed  at creating sustainable business outcomes while prioritising  environmental impact mitigations and enhancing the quality  of life for the communities.
This commitment is manifested  through various initiatives encompassing health, education,  environmental protection, women's empowerment and  more, strategically implemented across multiple states  in India.
8 CSR projects implemented by IndianOil were  chosen for an impact evaluation to understand and evaluate  the direct and indirect impacts created across beneficiaries  and stakeholder groups.
The objective of this exercise was  to reflect the benefits reaped by the beneficiaries over the  period of implementation.
The study of these 8 projects was conducted by  Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA), Centre for  Healthcare Entrepreneurship and IIT Hyderabad.
To ensure a  comprehensive assessment of these initiatives, OECD's DAC  framework was used, a globally recognised methodology.
The study was conducted in phases which included desk  review, data collection, analysis and reporting.
Each phase  was completed with a deliverable and a directed action  to begin the follow-on phase.
The study involved data  collection using Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) and  in-depth interviews and Key Informant Interviews (KII).
Summary of the assessment report is as under:  ASSAM OIL SCHOOL OF NURSING   Assam Oil School of Nursing in Digboi runs a 3-year Diploma  in General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) programme and  4-year B.Sc.
(Nursing) course to young girls with intake  capacity of 30 students in each course in one year.
IndianOil  provides admission fee, hostel facilities, books, uniforms and  even supports students by providing monthly stipend.
This  CSR initiative undertaken by IndianOil had multi-dimensional  impact in different spheres such as employment generation,  economic stability, health care services, empowerment  of underprivileged youth etc.
The study revealed that all  beneficiaries successfully completed their training and  secured employment with an average salary of H 21,000  each month.
This initiative effectively addressed the  shortage of qualified nurses in the north-eastern states,  therefore empowering the local communities.
INDIANOIL KARMAYOGI SWASTHYA BIMA YOJANA  The project “IndianOil Karmayogi Swasthya Bima Yojana”  extended insurance cover to the frontline workers i.e., LPG  delivery workers, retail outlet attendants, etc., who were  ensuring the supplies of petroleum products to the masses  during COVID-19.
The policy cover included hospitalisation  due to COVID-19 or for any other illness, up to H 1.0 Lakh  for policy holders and their family members.
There was an  in-built cover for accidental death benefits of H 2.0 Lakh but  limited to beneficiaries only.
Assessment study found that  IndianOil successfully settled 295 hospitalisation claims  and 12 death claims, benefitting personnel from various  regions.
The study undertaken also revealed that 58.1% of  the sampled respondents were below poverty line.
MADHUR MUSKAAN PROJECT  IndianOil's CSR initiative for cleft patients stands as a  beacon of compassion.
Cleft lip is a common congenital  malformation (birth defect), also known as oral clefts.
This health condition changes shape or function of one or  more body parts.
This intervention included partnering with  ‘Mission Smile’ for conducting correction surgeries for cleft  lip amongst the patients.
Beneficiary surveys revealed that  a total of 120 patients from Meghalaya and 225 patients  from Assam benefitted from the reconstructive surgeries  undertaken as part of this project during 2019-20.
DEVELOPMENT OF CENTRE FOR CULTURE AT  DEOGARH, ODISHA  Folk and oral literature of the primitive tribes of Deogarh is  highly imaginative and fascinating.
The district is particularly  famous for visual performing arts including Rama Leela,  Rash Leela, Bandibotol, Suanga, Jatra etc.
This programme  included construction of 2 large multi-functional air  conditioned halls, 7 rooms for accommodation, kitchen,  office-cum-store room and an eco- Park at Deogarh rural  district in the state of Odisha.
The study carried out disclosed  that the infrastructure development in the area helps in  building long term social capital amongst the community  members and is of cultural value.
A key feature of this  project from the point of view of sustainability is its self- financing model, as the operational and maintenance costs  are borne by the users.
Addressing the local community's  need for improved infrastructure to host cultural, religious  and sporting events, the Centre for Culture has hosted 44  events until February 2022.
PROCUREMENT OF AMBULANCES FOR  TRANSPORTATION OF COVID-19 PATIENTS IN  MUMBAI  The impact of COVID-19 pandemic on medical needs in  Mumbai was multi-faceted.
It was reported that lack of  transportation in the initial lockdown months was a key  challenge to provide access to adequate healthcare.
During  this period, distress calls from patients and their family  members was a regular issue.
It is during such tough times  that IndianOil took an initiative to reach out to the needs of  the people.
The survey conducted found that 13 ambulances  provided under the project served around 13,650 patients  across different areas of Mumbai.
These ambulances were  attached to 13 different hospitals and covered about 9 Lakh  Kms from 18.09.2020 to 31.12.2021.
PROVISION OF SAFE DRINKING WATER IN 6 VILLAGES  OF VADODARA  Under this project, drinking water provisions were made for  residents of 6 villages, i.e.
Fajalpur, Nandesari, Angadh, Koyali,  Rampura and Karachiya (around Vadodara, Gujarat Refinery  of IndianOil) through ten tapping points in the refinery water  supply pipeline and through household tap stations in some  villages.
The aim of the programme was to ensure health  and sanitation along with improving availability of drinking  water to residents.
The survey conducted revealed high  level of satisfaction amongst the users with around 81%  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 135  of the beneficiaries reported to be very satisfied with the  operations.
Making water available free of cost reduced  economic burden on 27.5% of the respondents who are  reportedly below poverty line.
The average time taken to  obtain water from a water point (round trip) has come down  to 22 minutes as reported.
ESSENTIAL MEDICAL EQUIPMENT FOR AUGMENTING  100 BEDDED ICU AT VIKASH MULTI-SPECIALITY  HOSPITAL IN BARGARH, ODISHA  The implementation of this project in 2021-22 was aimed  to cater to the rising demand for critical care amidst the  COVID-19 pandemic.
70 ventilators, 50 monitors with IBP  cables and 200 syringe pumps provided by IndianOil were  effectively utilised at the hospital for the treatment of  COVID-19 patients.
Patients receiving treatment at the ICU  expressed gratitude for the timely intervention facilitated  by IndianOil’s support.
Their feedback reflects the positive  impact of the initiative on their treatments, highlighting the  importance of access to advanced medical equipment in  combating COVID-19.
The increased capacity at the hospital  not only served the healthcare requirements of Bargarh  residents but also extended its support to patients from  other districts such as Angul, Bhubaneswar, Boudh, Balangir,  Kalahandi etc.
constituting 22% of the total treated cases.
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT FOR COVID HOSPITAL AND  COVID CARE CENTRE AT BARGARH, ODISHA  During COVID-19, a huge concern was the shortage of  ICU beds, especially those with ventilators.
Also, essential  medical tools like ECG machines, X-ray machines,  ultrasound devices, glucometres, dialysis machines, Ambu  bags and oxygen plants became crucial for the treatment.
Assessment study undertaken highlights that to tackle these  6.
(a)   Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Projects and other than Ongoing Projects): ₹ 435.70 Crore  (b)  Amount spent on Administrative Overheads: ₹ 21.78 Crore  (c)  Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: ₹ 0.23 Crore  (d)  Total amount spent for the Financial Year ((a)+(b) +(c)): ₹ 457.71 Crore  (e)  CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:  Total Amount Spent for the  Financial Year.
Amount Unspent Total Amount transferred to  Unspent CSR Account as per  section 135(6).
Amount transferred to any fund specified under  Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5).
Amount Date of transfer Name of the  Fund Amount Date of transfer ₹ 457.71 Crore Nil NA Nil Nil NA issues, IndianOil stepped up and provided different kinds  of medical equipment for dedicated COVID hospitals and  COVID Care Centres in Bargarh District, Odisha.
Post COVID,  the ultrasound machine, ECG machines, X-Ray machines  and dialysis machines, etc., have significantly improved  the hospital's diagnostic efficiency, patient outcomes and  overall healthcare delivery.
With this initiative, IndianOil has  provided benefits to more than 4 Lakh patients.
Impact Assessment Reports are hosted on the website of  Company at following URL: https://iocl.com/pages/Impact- Assessment-Reports (a) Average net profit of the  company as per sub-section  (5) of section 135 ₹ 21444.78 Crore (b) Two percent of average net  profit of the Company as per  sub-section (5) of section  135 ₹ 428.90 Crore (c) Surplus arising out of the  CSR Projects or programmes  or activities of the previous  financial years Nil (d) Amount required to be set off  for the financial year, if any: ₹ 6.48 Crore (e) Total CSR obligation for  the financial year Total CSR  obligation for the financial  year ((b)+(c)-(d)): ₹ 422.42 Crore  f) Excess amount for set off, if any Sl.
No.
Particular Amount (i) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5) (after set-off from  previous Financial Year) ₹ 422.42 Crore (ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year ₹ 457.71 Crore (iii) Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)] ₹ 35.29 Crore (iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial  Years, if any Nil (v) Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)] ₹ 35.29 Crore 7.
(a)  Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Sl.
No.
Preceding  Financial  Year Amount  transferred  to Unspent  CSR  Account  under  section 135  (6) Balance  Amount in  Unspent  CSR  Account  under  section  135 (6) Amount  spent  in the  reporting  Financial  Year Amount transferred to any fund  specified under Schedule VII as per  second proviso to section 135(5), if any Amount  remaining  to be  spent in  succeeding  financial  years Deficiency,  if anyName of  the Fund Amount Date of  transfer 1 2022-23 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 2 2021-22 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 3 2020-21 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 8.
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the Financial  Year: No capital Asset was created/acquired in the books of account of the Company during 2023-24 through CSR Spent.
If yes, enter the number of capital assets created/acquired: Not applicable  Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the  Financial Year: Sl.
No.
Short particulars  of the property or  asset(s) [including  complete address  and location of the  property] Pin code of  The property or  asset(s) Date of  creation Amount of CSR  amount spent Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the  registered owner CSR  Registration  Number, if  applicable Name Registered  address 1 - - - - - - - 2 - - - - - - - 9.
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5).
Not applicable Sd/- [Ms Rashmi Govil] Director (HR) and Member, CSR&SD Committee Sd/- [Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant] Independent Director and Chairman, CSR&SD Committee Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 136 137  ANNEXURE - III FORM MR-3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 {Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies   (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014} The Members, INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED Indian Oil Bhavan,  G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg,  Bandra (East),  Mumbai - 400 051   We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance  of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good  corporate practices by INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED (CIN:  L23201MH1959GOI011388) (hereinafter called "the Company").
The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided  us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conduct/ statutory compliance and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verifications from the Company's books, papers,  minute books, forms and returns filed and other records  maintained by the Company and also the information provided by  the Company, its officers, agents and authorised representatives  during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report  that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period  covering the year ended on March 31, 2024, complied with the  statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company  has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in  place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting  made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and  returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for  the audit period April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024, according to  the provisions of: (i) The Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder; (ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the  Rules made thereunder; (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye- laws framed thereunder; (iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules  and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign  Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External  Commercial Borrowings; (v) The following regulations and guidelines prescribed  under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992 ('SEBI Act'):  (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations, 2011;  (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition  of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;  (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2018;  (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities)  Regulations, 2021;  (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)  Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and  dealing with client;  (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share  Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity)  Regulations, 2021 (Not applicable to the Company  during the period under review);  (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting  of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 (Not applicable to  the Company during the period under review);  (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback  of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable to the  Company during the period under review);  (i) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories  & Participants) Regulations, 2018 (To the  extent applicable); (vi) Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public  Sector Enterprises issued by the Department of Public  Enterprises (DPE), Ministry of Finance, Government of India.
(vii) The following Acts and the Rules made thereunder pertaining  to Oil and Gas business, as applicable to the Company: -  a) The Petroleum Act, 1934;  b) The Oil Fields (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948;   c) The Oil Industry (Development) Act, 1974 ;  d)  Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)   Act, 1957;  e) The Energy Conservation Act, 2001;   f)  The Petroleum & Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006;   g)  Petroleum & Mineral Pipelines (Acquisition of Rights of  User in Land) Act, 1962;  h) The Petroleum & Natural Gas Rules, 1959;  We have also examined compliance with the applicable  provisions & clauses of the following:  a) Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of  Company Secretaries of India;  b) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,  2015 (SEBI (LODR));  During the period under review the Company has complied  with the provisions of Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines  etc.
except as mentioned below:  a) Regulation 17(1)(a) of SEBI (LODR), regarding  the requirement of having at least one woman  Independent Director during the year 2023-24.  b) Regulation 17(1)(b) of SEBI (LODR), regarding  the requirement of having at least half of the  Board of Directors as Independent Directors  for the period 01.04.2023 to 02.05.2023 and  16.01.2024 to 31.03.2024.
We further report that: 	 The changes in the composition of the Board of  Directors that took place during the period under review  were carried out in compliance with the provisions of  the Act.
However, the Company has not been able to  appoint requisite number of Independent Directors  including one Independent Woman Director as  required under Regulation 17 of SEBI (LODR), during  the period as mentioned above.
Adequate notices are given to all Directors about the  Board/Committee Meetings and the agenda along  with detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven  days in advance.
Meetings held at shorter notice are  in compliance with the provisions of the Companies  Act, 2013 and a system exists for seeking and  obtaining further information and clarifications on the  agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful  participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes of the Board duly recorded  and signed by Chairman, the decisions of the  Board were unanimous and no dissenting views  have been recorded.
The agenda items are deliberated before passing  the same and the views/observations made by the  Directors are recorded in the minutes.
We further report that  there are adequate systems and  processes in the Company commensurate with the size  and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure  compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations  and guidelines.
We further report that during the year 2023-24:   1) The Company at its Annual General Meeting held on  August 25, 2023 declared final dividend of H 3 per  equity share for the year 2022-23.
2) The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting  held on October 31, 2023 declared interim dividend of  H 5 per equity share for the year 2023-24.
3) The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting  held on July 7, 2023 had accorded an approval for  raising Capital upto an amount of H 22,000 Crore by  way of issue of equity shares on Rights basis to eligible  equity members of the Company.
4) The Company has redeemed its Bond Series XV  (INE242A08445) for H 2,000 Crore on April 13, 2023.
For Mehta & Mehta Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique code: P1996MH007500)  Sd/-  (Aditi Patnaik) UDIN: A045308F000591227 Partner Place: Mumbai ACS NO.
45308 Date: 19.06.2024 CP NO.
18186  PR NO.
3686/2023  Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure A” and forms an integral part of this report.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 138 139  Annexure A To, The Members, INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED Indian Oil Bhavan,  G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg,  Bandra (East),  Mumbai – 400051 Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1) Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management team of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express  an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2) We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness  of the content of the secretarial records.
The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in the  secretarial records.
We believe that the processes and practices we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3) We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Company.
4) Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and  happening of events, etc.
5) The compliance of the provisions of corporate laws, rules, regulations and standards is the responsibility of management.
Our  examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6) As regard the books, papers, forms, reports and returns filed by the Company under the provisions referred in Secretarial Audit  Report in Form MR-3, the adherence to the requirements of the said regulations is the responsibility of the management.
Our  examination was limited to checking the execution and timeliness of the filing of various forms, reports, returns and documents  that need to be filed by the Company with various authorities under the said regulations.
We have not verified the correctness and  coverage of the content of such forms, reports, returns and documents.
7) The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the effectiveness with which the  management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Mehta & Mehta Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique code: P1996MH007500)  Sd/-  (Aditi Patnaik)  UDIN: A045308F000591227 Partner Place: Mumbai ACS NO.
45308 Date: 19.06.2024 CP NO.
18186  PR NO.
3686/2023 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 140  ANNEXURE - IV Report on Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earning as per the provisions of the Companies  Act, 2013 and rules notified thereunder.
(A) Conservation of Energy:  i.
The steps taken for impact on Conservation of Energy:   During 2023-24, 187 energy conservation schemes were implemented across the refineries which achieved energy savings  of 3,59,896 SRFT/year, equivalent to a monetary savings of H 1,521 Crore every year and equivalent CO 2 reduction of  ~1.15 MMTPA.
Some of the major schemes implemented during 2023-24 are as under:  Sl.
No.
Energy saving schemes Estimated Cost  (J in Lakh) Estimated  Fuel Savings  (SRFT) MT/Year 1 Parallel operation of STG with 132kV Grid Power at Guwahati  Refinery 100 6489 2 Replacing Naphtha in hydrogen generation Unit-I with NG at  Barauni Refinery 8097 7280 3 Replacing Naphtha in hydrogen generation Unit-II with NG at  Barauni Refinery - 2260 4 Savings from efficiency improvement coating in CT Pumps (16  nos.)
at Barauni Refinery - 3361 5 Reduction in steam network by isolating 12 inches MP steam line  at Gujarat Refinery 8 4780 6 Stoppage of HGU-1 at Gujarat Refinery - 12500 7 FPU-2 APH replacement at Gujarat Refinery 227 2500 8 Emissivity coating of major furnaces CDU-1/2, VDU-1/2 and DCU  at Haldia Refinery 116.1 5500 9 Furnace efficiency improvement jobs done during August- September, 2023 shutdown in 15 nos.
of furnaces at Haldia  Refinery 252 6500 10 Reduction of steam consumption in CRU RGC after IGV  adjustment and suction enlargement and catalyst change at  Haldia Refinery 17 9733 11 FG firing in BLR#4 after NG modifications at Haldia Refinery 1255 6000 12 Stoppage of one boiler at Haldia Refinery 20 8000 13 100% Gas firing in VHP and UB at Panipat Refinery 996 4739 14 Stoppage of VHP and STG post commissioning of 220 KV Grid  power import at Panipat Refinery 27861 30044 15 RFG firing in GBC at Bongaigaon Refinery - 12800 16 Stopping of 2nd STG (under 3 GT operation) at Paradip Refinery - 17416 17 Grid Import of 32 MVA at Paradip Refinery 1284 5852 18 Stoppage of UB BFW vs MP Steam Heater at Paradip Refinery - 11631 19 CPP operational philosophy change to 5GT + 1STG +  1UB (at minimum load) compared to Normal operation of  4GT+2STG+1UB PNC - 32000 SRFT: Standard Refinery Fuel Equivalent Tonnes  ii.
Steps taken by the Company for utilising  alternative sources of energy:   a) The renewable energy portfolio of the Company  includes grid connected power and off-grid  solar power.
The Company has replaced  fluorescent tube lights and incandescent lamps  with 100% LED lighting in 7 out of 9 Refineries.
In other 2 refineries 98% and 80% replacement  has been achieved.
b) The Company has 25.64 MWp of solar panels  across various refineries with a total annual  generation capacity of 33.09 GWh of electricity.
(B)  Efforts made towards technology absorption,  adaptation and innovation  For improvement of product pattern, product quality,  improvement of energy efficiency as well as to meet the  dynamic environmental emission norms and to improve  profit margin, your Company has adopted most modern  technologies in line with the latest worldwide developments  in the field of petroleum refining and petrochemicals  production.
Major technologies adopted by the Company  are as follows:  a. Indigenous Technology   i)  IndeDiesel® (Diesel Hydrotreatment) Technology    IndeDiesel® technology developed for BS- VI quality diesel production by R&D Centre of  IndianOil along with ‘Engineers India Limited’  (EIL) has been successfully implemented  in Bongaigaon, Gujarat (DHDS revamp and  DHDT revamp), Haldia refineries and is under  implementation at Barauni Refinery.
ii) IndeHex® (Hexane Hydrogenation) Technology    R&D Centre of IndianOil and EIL have developed  hydrogenation based IndeHex® process  technology for Food grade Hexane/Polymer grade  hexane production.
2 units are currently operational  (Gujarat Refinery and HMEL, Bathinda Refinery).
iii) INDAdeptG Technology    INDAdeptG is reactive adsorption-based  process technology, developed by R&D Centre of  IndianOil and EIL, for production of low sulphur  Pck (Pipeline Compatible Kerosene).
gasoline  component meeting BS-IV/BS-VI sulphur  specification.
INDAdeptG unit with a capacity of  35 kTA was successfully commissioned for BS- IV gasoline production in Guwahati Refinery.
iv) IndDSK® Technology    IndDSK® is low severity hydrotreating technology  jointly licensed by R&D Centre of IndianOil and EIL  for production of ultra-low sulphur Pck (Pipeline  Compatible Kerosene).
The technology is under  implementation at Paradip Refinery for grass- root 300 kTA unit under BS-VI projects.
v) IndJet® Technology    IndJet® technology is jointly licensed by R&D  Centre of IndianOil and EIL for ATF production  by selective removal of mercaptan sulphur.
The  technology has been implemented for a grass- root 400 kTA unit at Barauni Refinery which was  commissioned in June, 2022.   vi) IndDSN® (Naphtha Hydro-treatment) Technology    IndDSN® is a process technology, jointly  licensed by R&D Centre of IndianOil and EIL, for  treating naphtha range hydro-carbon streams  to achieve product stream containing ultra-low  sulphur (≤ 0.5 ppm).
A 235 kTA grass-root unit  have been licensed at Bongaigaon Refinery  for feed treatment of isomerisation unit and  commissioned in May, 2021.   vii) IndSelectG Technology    IndSelectG is another in-house developed  selective hydro-treating based technology for  cracked gasoline desulphurisation with minimum  octane loss.
An 80 kTA grass-root unit at  Guwahati Refinery commissioned in July, 2022.   viii) INDMAX Technology    Indmax technology developed in-house by R&D  Centre of IndianOil and Lummus Technology  for converting heavy distillate and residue  into LPG/light distillate products has been  implemented successfully at Guwahati Refinery,  Paradip Refinery and Bongaigaon Refinery  and is proposed to be implemented at Barauni,  Gujarat, Panipat and CPCL refineries.
Based on  the in-house formulation, Indmax base catalyst is  manufactured and supplied for a commercial trial  in FCC unit at MR for performance improvement  in the propylene yield.
Performance test run was  successfully completed and met the expected  propylene yield.
ix) OCTAMAX Technology    OCTAMAX technology, developed by IndianOil  R&D Centre, has been successfully implemented  at Mathura Refinery for production of high- octane gasoline blending stream from refinery  LPG streams.
A 110 KTPA capacity plant based  on this technology is under implementation  at Gujarat Refinery under LuPech Project.
The  technology has also been licensed to CPCL under  CBR expansion project.
x) AmyleMax Technology    AmyleMax technology, in-house developed for  improvement of octane number of light cracked  naphtha through increase in oxygenates has been  successfully demonstrated at Gujarat Refinery in  2019.
A grass-root unit is being considered for  implementation at Gujarat Refinery.
xi) Hexane Hydrogenation Technology    Hexane Hydrogenation process for production  of food grade hexane (WHO grade quality),  developed by R&D Centre of IndianOil with  indigenous catalyst has been successfully  implemented at Gujarat Refinery.
xii) Delayed Coker Technology    Delayed Coker technology, developed by  R&D Centre of IndianOil and EIL has been  successfully demonstrated for Coker-A revamp  at Barauni Refinery.
The technology is also under  implementation for Coker-B unit revamp at  Barauni Refinery Expansion Project.
xiii) CBG Technology    Bio Gas Technology, developed by R&D Centre of  IndianOil for production of CBG from cattle dung  and paddy straw.
A 100 TPD plant on cow dung  feedstock mechanically completed at Hingonia,  Jaipur during May, 2022 and commissioning is  underway.
Also, a 200 TPD plant based on paddy  straw feed is under implementation at Gorakhpur.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 142 143    xiv) 2G Ethanol Unit    Technology from Praj for production of  ethanol from rice straw (2G ethanol unit) is  being implemented at Panipat.
Stabilisation of  operation at 60% feed throughput is envisaged  for 2G ethanol plant during 2024-25.
The 2G  Ethanol project is a one-of-a-kind project,  targeting production of 100 KLPD of bio-ethanol  using waste biomass like paddy straw to enhance  country’s energy security, providing extra income  to farmers and solving environmental problems  for burning of rice straw in fields.
xv) NEECOMAX Technology    NEECOMAX Technology is developed by R&D  Centre of IndianOil, for production of needle  grade petroleum coke from clarified oil.
Calcined  needle coke is a value-added niche product  produced from low value feed stock.
Needle  coke unit based on NEECOMAX Technology is  proposed to be implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xvi) SR LPG treatment Technology:    LPG hydro-treater technology for treatment of  SR LPG, developed by R&D Centre of IndianOil  is under implementation under Panipat Refinery  expansion project (P-25).
xvii) indCoker Technology:    R&D Centre of IndianOil has developed an  indigenous technology for Delayed Coker Unit  (DCU) with two stage cracking process to reduce  the coke yield and increase the distillate yield  from the unit.
Existing DCU at Digboi Refinery  is being revamped using indCoker technology  under Digboi Refinery expansion Project.
b.
Imported Technology   i) 3G Ethanol Unit    Technology from M/s Lanzatech, USA for  production of Ethanol from PSA of gas is  implemented at Panipat Refinery.
ii) Alkylation Technology    For production of MS, Alkylation technology from  M/s Exxon Mobil, USA has been implemented at  Paradip Refinery.
iii) ATF Treatment Technology    ATF Merox Treatment Technology from M/s  UOP , USA has been implemented at Gujarat  and Panipat refineries.
Technology from M/s  Merichem, USA has been implemented at  Paradip Refinery.
iv) Biturox Technology    To produce various grades of Bitumen as  well as to meet the quality requirements,  Biturox technology from M/s Porner, Austria  has been employed at Gujarat, Mathura and  Barauni Refineries.
v) Butane Isomerisation Technology    For production of Alkylate, “Butamer” Technology  from M/s UOP , USA has been implemented at  Paradip Refinery.
vi) Butene-1 Technology    For production of Butene-1 Technology from M/s  Axens, France has been implemented at Gujarat  Refinery and at Panipat complex.
vii) Catalytic Iso-dewaxing Technology    For improving lube oil quality in line with  international standards and augmenting  production capability of API Gr II LOBS, Iso- dewaxing technology from M/s MOBIL, USA has  been implemented at Haldia Refinery.
Catalytic Dewaxing Technology from M/s  Chevron Lummus Global (CLG) for production  of API Gr II and Gr III LOBS has been considered  in expansion project at Panipat Refinery and  LuPech project at Gujarat Refinery.
viii) Catalytic Reforming Technology    For improvement in Octane number of  Motor Spirit, Continuous Catalytic Reforming  technology (CCRU) from M/s Axens, France  has been implemented at Mathura and Panipat  refineries.
Continuous Catalytic Reforming  Technology from M/s UOP , USA has been  implemented at Gujarat, Paradip and Barauni  refineries.
Catalytic Reforming technology  (CRU) with Russian collaboration has been  implemented at Gujarat Refinery and from M/s  Axens has been implemented at Haldia, Barauni,  Digboi and Bongaigaon refineries.
Continuous  Catalytic Reforming technology (CCRU) from  M/s UOP has been considered in expansion  project at Panipat Refinery.
ix) Coker Gas Oil Hydrotreatment Technology    Coker Gas Oil Hydro-treatment Technology from  M/s Axens, France has been implemented at  Haldia Refinery under DYIP project.
x) Coke Calcination Technology    Coke Calcination Technology from METSO, USA  for production of Calcined Needle Coke is being  proposed to be implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xi) Delayed Coker Technology    For bottom of the barrel upgradation, Delayed  Coker technology from M/s Lummus Technology,  USA has been implemented at Panipat Refinery  as part of Panipat Refinery Expansion Project.
Delayed Coker Technology from M/s Foster  Wheeler, USA has been implemented at Gujarat  Refinery under Resid upgradation Project, at  Paradip Refinery and also at Haldia Refinery  under Distillate Yield Improvement (DYIP) Project.
xii) Diesel Hydro Desulphurisation Technology    Diesel Hydro Desulphurisation (DHDS) Units have  been installed at Mathura and Panipat refineries  with technology from M/s Axens, France and at  Gujarat and Haldia refineries with technology  from M/s UOP , USA to meet the diesel quality  requirement w.r.t sulphur.
Technology from M/s  Haldor Topsoe, Denmark has been implemented  for revamp of DHDS at Mathura Refinery.
xiii) Diesel Hydro-treatment Technology    Diesel Hydro-treatment (DHDT) Units have been  installed at Guwahati, Barauni, Digboi, Panipat and  Gujarat refineries with the technology from M/s  UOP , USA.
Technology from M/s Axens, France  is implemented at Mathura, Panipat, Gujarat and  Paradip refineries.
Technology from M/s Shell  Global Solutions, Netherlands is implemented  at Paradip Refinery and has been considered for  expansion project at Panipat Refinery.
xiv) Divided Wall Column (DWC) Technology    Divided Wall Column (DWC) technology is a new  separation technology which separates a multi- component feed into three or more purified streams  within a single tower, thereby eliminating the need  for a second column to obtain high purity products.
This design saves capital and energy costs by  eliminating operation of second separation column.
DWC of M/s KBR, USA has been implemented at  Mathura Refinery at CCRU-NSU.
xv) Fluidised Catalytic Cracking Technology    Fluidised Catalytic Cracking (FCC) technology from  M/s UOP , USA has been implemented in Gujarat and  Mathura Refineries for conversion of Vacuum Gas  Oil to LPG, MS and Diesel.
Technology from M/s  Lummus Technology, USA has been implemented  for revamp of FCCU at Mathura Refinery.
xvi) Hydrocracker Technology    Full Conversion Hydro cracking Unit (HCU)  technologies from M/s Chevron USA and M/s UOP  USA have been implemented at Gujarat Refinery  and Panipat Refinery respectively for conversion  of vacuum gas oil to jet fuel, kerosene and diesel.
Revamp of HCU unit based on technology from  Chevron Lummus Global is under implementation  at Gujarat Refinery under LuPech projects to  produce feedstock for LOBS/CDW unit.
xvii)  Hydro-finishing Technology for treatment of Paraffin    Wax/Microcrystalline Wax Process technology  from M/s.
Axens, France for hydro finishing  of paraffin wax has been implemented at  Digboi Refinery.
xviii) Hydrogen Generation Technology    Hydrogen generation technology from M/s Linde,  Germany was adopted for Hydrogen production  and supply to Hydro cracker unit at Gujarat  Refinery and has been implemented at Barauni  Refinery under M/s Quality Improvement Project.
Hydrogen generation technology obtained from  M/s Haldor Topsoe, Denmark is in operation at  Gujarat, Mathura, Haldia, Panipat and Barauni  refineries and has been implemented at Gujarat  Refinery under Resid Upgradation Project.
Similar  technology from M/s Technip Energies, the  Netherlands has been implemented for hydrogen  generation at Guwahati, Digboi, Mathura and  Haldia refineries.
Hydrogen generation technology  from M/s Technip Energies, the Netherlands has  been implemented at Bongaigaon Refinery under  Diesel Quality improvement project.
xix) ISOSIV Technology at Guwahati Refinery    For production of Isomerate for blending in MS at  Guwahati Refinery, ISOSIV technology from MS  UOP , USA has been implemented.
xx) Kerosene Hydro Desulphurisation Technology    Kerosene Hydro Desulphurisation Unit has been  installed at Haldia Refinery with technology from  M/s Axens, France.
xxi) LPG Treatment Technology    Coker LPG Merox Treatment technology from M/s  UOP , USA has been implemented at Panipat Refinery  and at Haldia Refinery under DYIP project.
FCC  LPG Treatment technology from M/s Merichem,  USA has been implemented at Haldia and Paradip  refineries.
Straight Run LPG Treatment technology  from M/s UOP , USA has been implemented at  Paradip Refinery.
LPG Treatment technology from  M/s UOP is under implementation in expansion  project at Barauni Refinery.
xxii) MS Quality Upgradation Technology    For MS quality upgradation, Isomerisation  technology of M/s UOP , USA have been  implemented at Mathura, Panipat and Gujarat  Refineries.
Isomerisation Technology from M/s  Axens, France has been implemented at Haldia,  Guwahati, Digboi and Barauni refineries.
FCC  Gasoline desulphurisation technology (Prime-G)  from M/s Axens, France has been implemented at  Haldia, Mathura, Panipat, Barauni and Bongaigaon  refineries.
Isomerisation technology of M/s  UOP , USA is under implementation in expansion  projects at Barauni, Panipat and Gujarat Refineries.
xxiii) MTBE Technology    Technology from M/s CD Tech, USA has  been implemented for production of MTBE at  Gujarat Refinery.
xxiv)  Naphtha Cracker and downstream Petrochemical  Technology    Naphtha Cracker Technology from M/s ABB  Lummus, USA has been implemented at  Panipat Refinery.
Technologies from M/s  Basell, Italy, M/s Basell, Germany, M/s Nova  Chemicals, Canada and M/s Scientific Design,  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 144 145  USA have been implemented for downstream  polymer plants viz.
Poly-Propylene unit (PP),  HDPE unit, Swing Unit (HDPE/LLDPE) and  MEG unit respectively.
Technology from M/s  ABB Lummus has been implemented for  production of butadiene.
Technology from M/s  Basell, Italy is under implementation at Paradip  Refinery for production of Poly-Propylene.
Technology from M/s Scientific Design, USA is  under implementation at Paradip Refinery for  production of MEG.
Poly-Propylene unit (PP) with  technology developed by M/s McDermott has  been considered in expansion projects at Barauni  and Gujarat refineries.
PP with technology from  M/s Basell, is under implementation in expansion  project at Panipat Refinery.
xxv) Naphtha Treatment Technology    FCC Naphtha Treatment Technology from M/s  Merichem, USA for removal of Mercaptans  and H2S is implemented at Paradip Refinery.
Technology for Naphtha Hydrotreating and  fractionating from M/s UOP , USA is implemented  at Paradip Refinery and has been considered in  expansion project at Barauni, Panipat and Gujarat  refineries.
Naphtha hydrotreating from M/s UOP ,  USA has been implemented at Barauni Refinery  under BS-IV project.
xxvi) Once Through Hydro-cracking Technology    Once Through Hydrocracking Units (OHCU) have  been installed at Panipat, Mathura and Haldia  refineries with the technologies from M/s UOP ,  USA, M/s Chevron, USA and M/s Axens, France  respectively for improvement of distillate yield.
OHCU technology by M/s Chevron Lummus  Global (CLG) has been considered in B-9  expansion project at Barauni Refinery.
xxvii) Regenerative type Flue Gas de-sulphurisation  Technology    In order to recover Sulphur Di-oxide from  boiler flue gasses, a regenerative type flue gas  Desulphurisation technology from M/s Cansolv  Technology Incorporate (CTI), Canada, has been  implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xxviii) Resid Fluidised Catalytic Cracking Technology    The Resid Fluidised Catalytic Cracking (RFCC)  technology from M/s Stone and Webster, USA  (now part of Technip) has been implemented at  Panipat, Haldia and Barauni refineries.
xxix) Resid Hydrocracker Technology    Resid-Hydrocracker Technology from M/s Axens,  France for enhancement of distillate yield from the  bottoms (vacuum residue) is being implemented  at Panipat Refinery expansion Project.
xxx) Solvent Dewaxing/De-oiling Technology at Digboi    In order to upgrade the process for production  of Paraffin Wax at Digboi Refinery, Solvent  dewaxing/de-oiling technology from M/s UOP ,  USA has been implemented.
xxxi) Spent Acid Regeneration Technology    In order to regenerate fresh sulphuric acid from  spent sulphuric acid recovered from Alkylation  Unit, a Spent Acid Regeneration Technology from  M/s MECS (Monsanto Enviro-Chem Systems),  USA has been implemented at Paradip Refinery.
xxxii)Sulphur Pelletisation Technology    For production of Sulphur in Pellet form,  Technology from M/s Sandvik, Germany has  been implemented at Gujarat, Mathura and  Panipat Refineries.
xxxiii)  Sulphur Recovery Technologies for reduction  of SO2 emissions    Refineries at Gujarat, Haldia, Mathura and Barauni  are provided with Sulphur Recovery Technology  from M/s.
Worley, Netherlands.
The sulphur recovery  technology from M/s.
Delta Hudson, Canada has  been employed at Panipat Refinery.
Further, Sulphur  recovery technologies from M/s Black and Veatch  Pritchard, USA have been implemented at Panipat,  Gujarat and Paradip refineries.
Technology from M/s  Technip Energies, Spain has been implemented at  Haldia Refinery under Once through Hydrocracker  Project.
Technology from M/s Worley, Netherlands  has been implemented under additional Sulphur  Recovery Unit at Mathura Refinery.
Technology from  M/s Lurgi, Germany has been implemented under  DYIP project at Haldia Refinery.
Technology from M/s  Axens, France is under implementation at Panipat  Refinery and Bongaigaon Refinery.
Sulphur Recovery  Technology from M/s Kinetic Technology is under  implementation in expansion project at Barauni  Refinery and technology from M/s Worley is under  implementation in expansion at Panipat Refinery.
xxxiv)Technology for Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB)    Technology from M/s UOP , USA has been  implemented for production of Linear Alkyl  Benzene at Gujarat Refinery.
xxxv)Technology for Para-Xylene    For production of Para-Xylene at Panipat,  technologies from M/s UOP , USA have been  implemented.
Technology from M/s UOP , USA  has been considered at Paradip Refinery.
xxxvi)Technology for Purified Terephthalic Acid (PTA)    For production of PTA at Panipat Refinery,  technology from M/s Invista, USA has  been implemented.
Technology from BP Amoco has been considered  at Paradip Refinery.
xxxvii)VGO Hydrotreatment Technology    Technology from M/s UOP has been implemented  at Gujarat Refinery under Resid Upgradation  Project.
Technology from M/s Axens, France has  been implemented at the VGO-Treater installed  at Paradip Refinery.
xxxviii)Sulphuric acid Plant Technology    Technology from M/s Haldor Topsoe for  production of sulphuric acid by oxidation  of H2S has been implementation at Haldia  Refinery under project.
xxxix)TAME Technology    Tertiary Amyl Methyl Ether (TAME) Technology  from M/s Axens has been implemented at  Panipat Refinery.
xl) Poly Butadiene Rubber (PBR) Technology    Poly Butadiene Rubber (PBR) Technology from  M/s Goodyear Tire and Rubber Corporation, USA  is under implementation at Panipat Refinery and  Petrochemical Complex.
PBR Unit is expected to  be commissioned in March, 2025.
The product  PBR is a major raw material for automotive tyres.
xli) Technology for Acrylics/Oxo-Alcohol    Acrylic acid technology from M/s Mitsubishi  Chemical Corporation (MCC) is under  implementation at Dumad, Gujarat.
xlii) Technology for Butene-1    Butene-1 Technology trom M/s.
Axens  France is under implementation at Paradip  Petrocheniicals complex.
xliii) Technology for Cumene    Cumene Technology from M/s.
Lummus,  USA is under implementation at Paradip  Petrochemical Complex  c.  The benefits derived like product improvement,  cost reduction, product development or import  substitution:   Benefits derived include 	 Upgradation of heavy oil to higher value products  of improved quality such as LPG, gas oil, motor  spirit, kerosene, ATF, etc.
Reduction of sulphur content impurity in  petroleum products (like LPG, Naphtha, MS,  Kerosene, ATF, HSD etc.).
Feed quality improvement for subsequent  processing resulting in improved product pattern.
Production of higher-grade lubricant base stocks  which help in reducing import dependence.
Production of better grades of bitumen.
Reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions.
Value addition to surplus Naphtha by 	 Naphtha Cracking and subsequent high  value products like Glycols, Polymers,  Butadiene, Benzene etc.
Naphtha conversion to high value  Paraxylene (PX) and benzene and  subsequent PX conversion to higher  value PTA product.
Production of high value speciality products like  MTBE, LAB, Food Grade Hexane etc.
Production of products (like Styrene Butadiene  Rubber and Butene-1) which are import  substitution products.
Production of sulphur in pellets form which is  more environment friendly and easier to handle 	 Auto fuel quality improvement for HSD and MS  so that these fuels can conform to BS-IV/BS-VI  fuel standards and latest pollution control norms.
Use of a number of indigenous technologies  resulting in import substitution  d.  Details of imported technology (imported during  the last three years reckoned from the beginning  of the financial year):   i.
Fuel Quality Upgradation Project at Paradip Refinery    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for Hydrogen Generation and  ROG PSA from M/s Linde, Germany    The year of import: 2018-19.
Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage.
Expected  commissioning of HGU plant by December, 2024   ii.
Barauni Refinery Expansion project    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for processing Vacuum gas oil in  Hydrocracking unit from M/s Chevron, USA 	 Technology for production of  Isomerate through Isomerisation unit  from M/s UOP , USA.
Technology for production of sulphur  from M/s KT, Italy.
Technology for Poly Propylene production  M/s CB&I Novolen Technology 	 Technology for LPG Treatment  from M/s UOP , USA    The year of import: 2017-18/2018-19    Whether the technology been fully absorbed:   The project is in implementation stage –  Expected commissioning by December, 2024.   iii.
Catalytic reforming unit project in Guwahati  Refinery    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for production of Reformate  from M/s UOP , USA.
The year of import: 2018-19 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 146 147     Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by February, 2025   iv.
Gujarat Refinery Expansion Project    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for production of Reformate  and Isomerate from M/s UOP , USA.
Technology for Poly Propylene production  from M/s Lummus Novolen, Germany.
Technology for production of Lube oil  base stock through HCU revamp and  catalytic Dewaxing unit from M/s.
Chevron  Lummus Global, USA    The year of import: 2018-19     Whether the technology been fully absorbed:  The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by 2025-26   v. Panipat Refinery Expansion Project    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for desulphurisation of gas oils,  from M/s Shell, 	 Technology for desulphurisation of Vacuum  Gas oils from M/s UOP , USA 	 Technology for production of Reformate  and Isomerate from M/s UOP , USA 	 Technology for upgradation of bottom of  barrel to distillates by Resid hydrocracking  from M/s Axens, France 	 Technology for production of API Gr II and  Gr III LOBS from M/s CLG, USA 	 Technology for production of Poly Propylene  Unit from M/s Basell Polyolifine, Italy 	 Technology for sulphur recovery unit  from M/s.
Worley    The year of import: 2018-19 and 2019-20    Whether the technology been fully absorbed:   The project is in implementation stage –  Expected commissioning by 2025-26   vi.
PX-PTA Project at Paradip    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for PX Unit, from M/s UOP , USA 	 Technology for PTA from M/s BP Amoco, USA    The year of import: 2017-18/2018-19    Whether the technology been fully absorbed:   The project is in implementation stage –  Expected commissioning by April, 2025   vii.
Acrylics/Oxo Alcohol Project at Dumad, Gujarat    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for Butyl Acrylate Unit, from M/s  Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Japan 	 Technology for Acrylic Acid Unit, from M/s  Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Japan 	 Technology for Normal Butanol Unit, from  M/s JM Davy, U.K    The year of import: 2018-19    Whether the technology been fully absorbed:   The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by July, 2024.   viii.
Poly Butadiene Rubber Project, Panipat    The details of technology imported: 	 Technology for Goodyear Tire and Rubber  Corporation, USA    The year of import: 2021-22    Whether the technology been fully absorbed:   The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by March, 2025.   ix.
Paradip Petrochemical Complex (PDPC):    The details of technology imported:    - Technology For Butane - 1 unit from  M/s.
Axens, France    - Technology for Cumene unit from  M/s.
Lummus USA    The year of Import: 2023-24    Whether the technology been fully absorbed:    The project is in implementation stage - Expected  commissioning by August, 2029.   e. Expenditure on R&D    (a) Capital - H   606.00 Crore   (b) Recurring - H   340.14 Crore   (c) Total  - H   946.14 Crore (C) Foreign Exchange Earning and Outgo  The total Foreign Exchange earned and outgo during the  year is as under:  - Foreign Exchange earned : H 40,512.04 Crore  -  Foreign Exchange outgo : H 4,32,998.13 Crore Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 148  REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1.
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE  GOVERNANCE  IndianOil strongly believes that good Corporate Governance  practices ensure ethical and efficient conduct of the affairs  of the Company in a transparent manner and also help in  maximising value for all the stakeholders like members,  customers, employees, contractors, vendors and the society  at large.
Good Corporate Governance practices help in  building an environment of trust and confidence among all  the constituents.
The Company endeavours to uphold the  principles and practices of Corporate Governance to ensure  transparency, integrity and accountability in its functioning,  which are vital to achieve its Vision of being ‘The Energy of  India’ and a ‘Globally-Admired Company’.
The Company has set high standards of ethical and  responsible conduct of business to create value for all its  stakeholders.
For effective implementation of the Corporate  Governance practices, the Company has well-defined  policies inter-alia, consisting of the following:  a) Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior  Management Personnel  b) Code for Prevention of Insider Trading in the Securities  of IndianOil and Practices and Procedure for  Fair Disclosure  c) Enterprise Risk Management Policy  d) Integrity Pact to enhance transparency in business  e) Whistle Blower Policy  f) Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules for officers  g) Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility   Policy  h) Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and  dealing with Related Party Transactions  i) Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries  j) Policy for determination and disclosure of Material  Event/Information  k) Policy for Preservation of Documents  l) Dividend Distribution Policy  m) Human Resources Initiatives  n) Policy for dealing with unclaimed amount   towards Interest/Dividend/Redemption on listed non  convertible securities 2.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS (a) Composition of Board of Directors  The Board of the Company comprises of Whole Time/ Functional Directors including Chairman (Executive  Directors), Government Nominee Directors (Non-Executive  Directors) and Independent Directors (Non-Executive  Directors).
The Independent Directors are people with  proven record in diverse areas like business, law, finance,  economics, administration etc.
The tenure of the Directors appointed on the  Board    is as under: 	 Functional Directors are appointed for a period of  five years or their date of superannuation, or further  orders from the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas  (MoP&NG), whichever is earlier; 	 Government Nominee Directors are appointed for a  period of three years on co-terminus basis or further  order from the MoP&NG, whichever is earlier; 	 Independent Directors are appointed for a  period of three years IndianOil Board with IOCians at Corporate Office  As on 31.03.2024, the Board of the Company had 16 (Sixteen) Directors comprising of 8 (Eight) Functional Directors including the  Chairman, 1 (One) Government Nominee Director and 7 (Seven) Independent Directors as under:  Sl.
No.
Name Designation Category Date of  appointment Tenure as on  31.03.2024  (in years)  1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman Whole-time Director 14.10.2019  (Note 1) 4.47 2.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) Whole-time Director 28.10.2021 2.42 3.
Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries) Whole-time Director 07.02.2022 2.15 4.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning and  Business Development) Whole-time Director 23.02.2022 2.10 5.
Shri Nachimuthu Senthil Kumar Director (Pipelines) Whole-time Director 14.08.2023 0.63 6.
Shri Anuj Jain Director (Finance) Whole-time Director 09.10.2023 0.48 7.
Shri Alok Sharma Director (Research and  Development) Whole-time Director 16.01.2024 0.21 8.
Ms Rashmi Govil Director   (Human Resources) Whole-time Director 15.03.2024 0.04 9.
Shri Sunil Kumar Govt.
Nominee Director Non-Executive Director 28.12.2022 1.26 10.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director Non-Executive Director 24.11.2021 2.35 11.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant Independent Director Non-Executive Director 24.11.2021 2.35 12.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director Non-Executive Director 24.11.2021 2.35 13.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director Non-Executive Director 24.11.2021 2.35 14.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director Non-Executive Director 24.11.2021 2.35 15.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan Independent Director Non-Executive Director 24.11.2021 2.35 16.
Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh Independent Director Non-Executive Director 08.04.2022 1.98  Note 1: Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya was appointed as Director (Refineries) on 14.10.2019 and thereafter, as Chairman w.e.f.
01.07.2020.
After his superannuation, MoP&NG has re-employed him as Chairman for a period of one year i.e.
01.09.2023 till  31.08.2024 or until further order from MoP&NG whichever is earlier.
The Independent Directors have submitted a declaration that  they meet the criteria of independence as laid down under  Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules  notified thereunder (‘Act’) and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the  SEBI  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations 2015 (‘SEBI (LODR)’).
In the opinion of the  Board, the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions of  independence specified in the Act and SEBI (LODR) and are  independent of the management.
The terms and conditions of appointment of  Independent Directors are hosted on the website of the  Company www.iocl.com  As required under the SEBI (LODR), M/s Mehta & Mehta,  Practicing Company Secretaries, has certified that none  of the directors on the Board of the Company have been  debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing  as director of the Company by the Ministry of Corporate  Affairs or any such statutory authority.
(b) Skills/Expertise/Competencies of Board of Directors  Being a Government Company, all the Directors on the Board,  i.e.
Functional Directors, Government Nominee Directors  and Independent Directors are selected and appointed  by the Government as per a well laid down process for  each category of Directors.
The core skills, expertise and  competence required for the Board to function effectively,  in the context of the Company’s business, forms an integral  part of the Government’s process for selection of Directors.
In view thereof, the Board of the Company has not identified  any such core skills or expertise or competence for a  Director as required under SEBI (LODR).
(c) Board Meetings  The Board of Directors oversees the overall functioning  of the Company and sets targets for future, lays down  strategies and action plan to achieve its Vision.
The  Board lays down the Company’s policy and oversees its  implementation in attaining its objectives.
It has constituted  various committees to facilitate the smooth and efficient  flow of the decision-making process.
During 2023-24, 15 (Fifteen) Board Meetings were held.
The dates of the Board Meetings are fixed well in advance  and intimated to the Board members to enable them to  plan their schedule accordingly.
The agenda items are  comprehensive and informative in nature to facilitate  deliberations and appropriate decision making at the Board  meeting.
Presentations are made to the Board on various  functional and operational areas of the Company as well as  on major projects, financial performance, etc.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 150 151   The agenda placed before the Board inter-alia includes all statutory, other significant and material information, including the  information mentioned in Regulation 17(7), read with Part A of Schedule II of SEBI (LODR) and Annexure IV of the Guidelines on  Corporate Governance issued by the Department of Public Enterprises for Government Companies.
Details of the Board Meetings held during 2023-24 are as under:  Sl.
No.
Date Board Strength No.
of Directors Present 1.
16.05.2023 14 13  2.
29.05.2023 14 13  3.
24.06.2023 14 14 4.
07.07.2023 13 13 5.
28.07.2023 13 13 6.
24.08.2023 13 13 7.
15.09.2023 13 12  8.
29.09.2023 13 13 9.
13.10.2023 14 14 10.
31.10.2023 14 14 11.
01.12.2023 14 14 12.
07.01.2024 14 14 13.
24.01.2024 15 15 14.
28.02.2024 15 15 15.
28.03.2024 16 16 (d)  Attendance of each Director at Board Meetings held during 2023-24, last Annual General Meeting (AGM) and number of  other Directorships and Chairmanship/Membership of Committees of each Director in various companies are as under:  Name of the Director No.
of Board  Meetings  attended out  of meetings  held during  the tenure of  Director  Attendance   at the AGM   held on  25.08.2023  (Yes/No/ NA) No.
of  Directorship  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2024 Directorship in other  listed entities as on  31.03.2024 and category  of Directorship Membership  of  Committees   in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2024 Chairmanship  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2024 Whole-time Directors Shri Shrikant Madhav  Vaidya   (DIN - 06995642)  Chairman  15(15) Yes 3 1)  Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited   (Non-Executive  Chairman) 2)  Petronet LNG Limited  (Non-Executive  Director) - - Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri  (DIN - 09322002) Director (Marketing) 15(15) Yes 2 - - - Ms Sukla Mistry  (DIN - 09309378) Director (Refineries) 15(15) Yes 3 1)  Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited  (Non-Executive  Director) - - Shri Sujoy Choudhury  (DIN - 09503285) Director (Planning and  Business Development) 14(15) Yes 3 - - - Shri Nachimuthu  Senthil Kumar  (DIN - 10230965) Director (Pipelines) w.e.f.
14.08.2023 10(10) Yes 2 - - - Name of the Director No.
of Board  Meetings  attended out  of meetings  held during  the tenure of  Director  Attendance   at the AGM   held on  25.08.2023  (Yes/No/ NA) No.
of  Directorship  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2024 Directorship in other  listed entities as on  31.03.2024 and category  of Directorship Membership  of  Committees   in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2024 Chairmanship  of  Committees  in other  Companies  as on  31.03.2024 Shri Anuj Jain  (DIN - 10310088) Director (Finance)  w.e.f.
09.10.2023 7(7) NA - - - - Shri Alok Sharma  (DIN - 10453982) Director (Research and  Development)   w.e.f.
16.01.2024 3(3) NA - - - - Ms Rashmi Govil  (DIN - 10531397) Director   (Human Resources)  w.e.f.
15.03.2024 1(1) NA - - - - Dr S S V Ramakumar  (DIN - 07626484) Director (Research and  Development)  Upto 31.07.2023 5(5) NA - - - - Shri Dayanand  Sadashiv Nanaware  (DIN - 07354849) Director (Pipelines)  Upto 30.06.2023 3(3) NA 2 - - - Non-Executive Directors (Government Nominee) Shri Sunil Kumar  (DIN - 08467559) 14(15) Yes - - - - Non-Executive Directors (Independent Directors) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  (DIN - 09398549) 15(15) Yes - - - - Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant  (DIN - 03057160) 15(15) Yes - - - - Dr Dattatreya Rao  Sirpurker   (DIN - 09400251) 15(15) Yes - - - - Shri Prasenjit Biswas  (DIN - 09398565) 15(15) Yes - - - - Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray  (DIN - 02534632) 15(15) Yes - - - - Shri Krishnan Sadagopan   (DIN - 09397902) 15(15) Yes - - - - Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh  Singh (DIN - 07571840) 14(15) Yes - - - -  Note:  1)  The Directorship held by Directors in other Companies include public limited, private limited and foreign companies but do not include the companies  registered under Section 8 of the Act.
2) The Membership/Chairmanship of Committee is considered only for the Audit Committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
3)  In case of cessation of Directorship, the details of directorship on Board of other companies and committee position are as on the date of cessation  from the Board of the Company.
All the Directors have declared their Directorship and Membership in the various Boards/Committees of other companies, as and when  required.
None of the Directors on the Board is a Member of more than 10 Committees or a Chairman of more than five Committees  across all the companies in which they hold Directorships.
Further, none of the Non-Executive Directors serve as Independent Director  on any listed Company and none of the Executive or Whole-time Directors serve as Independent Director on any listed Company.
A brief resume of the Director, who is being re-appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, is provided in the  notice of the AGM.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 152 153  (e) Code of Conduct  The Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior  Management Personnel of the Company approved by the  Board is circulated to all concerned and is also hosted on  the website of the Company www.iocl.com.
The Directors  and Senior Management Personnel of the Company have  affirmed compliance with the provisions of the Code of  Conduct for the year ended 31.03.2024 under Regulation  26(3) of SEBI (LODR) and no material financial or commercial  transactions, which may have a potential conflict with the  interest of the Company, were reported by them.
(f) Succession Planning  Being a Government Company under the administrative  control of the MoP&NG, the power to appoint Directors  (including Independent Directors) vests with the  Government of India.
However, the Company has put in place a structured  succession planning framework to ensure a systematic  development plan to fill key positions, other than Board  Members, in line with the vision and business strategies  of the Company.
3.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD (a) Audit Committee  The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee inter alia  covers the matters specified under the provisions of the Act  as well as Regulation 18 (3) read with Part C of Schedule II  of the SEBI (LODR), which inter-alia include the following: 	 Overseeing the Company’s financial reporting  process and disclosure of financial information to  ensure that the financial statements are correct,  sufficient and credible.
Reviewing with management the quarterly and  annual financial statements, auditors’ report along  with related party transactions, if any, before  submission to the Board.
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of  uses/application of funds raised through an issue  (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.
),  the statement of funds utilised for purposes other  than those stated in the offer document/prospectus/ notices and the report submitted by the monitoring  agency monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of  a public or rights issue, and making appropriate  recommendations to the board to take up steps  in this matter.
Approval of or any subsequent modification of  transactions of the Company with related parties.
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments.
Valuation of undertaking or assets of the listed entity,  wherever it is necessary.
Reviewing matters to be included in Directors  Responsibility Statement that form part of  the Board Report.
Reviewing with the management, statutory and internal  auditors, the adequacy of internal control systems.
Reviewing adequacy of internal audit function, if  any, including the structure of the internal audit  department, staffing and seniority of the official  heading the department, reporting structure coverage  and frequency of internal audit.
Discussions with internal auditors on the Annual  Internal Audit Programme, Significant Audit Findings  and follow up on such issues.
Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by  the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected  fraud or irregularity or failure of internal control systems  of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board.
Discussions with statutory auditors before the audit  commences on the nature and scope of audit, as  well as having post-audit discussion to ascertain any  area of concern.
Looking into the reasons for substantial defaults in  the payment to the depositors, debenture holders,  shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared  dividends) and creditors.
Approving the appointment of Chief Financial Officer  after assessing the qualifications, experience and  background etc.
of the candidate.
Reviewing the utilisation of loans and/or advances  from/investments by the holding company in the  subsidiary exceeding  ₹ 100 Crore or 10% of the asset  size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including  existing loans/advances/investments existing as on  the date of coming into force of this provision.
Considering and commenting on rationale, cost- benefits and impact of schemes involving merger,  demerger, amalgamation etc., if any, on the listed  entity and its shareholders.
Reviewing Company’s financial and risk  management policies.
Evaluating internal financial controls and risk  management systems.
Reviewing with the management, the observations of  the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) and  management’s assurance thereon.
Reviewing with the management, the follow-up action  taken on the recommendations of the Parliamentary  Committee on Public Undertaking (CoPU), if any.
Noting the appointment of Statutory Auditors of  the Company and recommending audit fee for the  statutory audit as well as to approve fee for other  services by the auditors.
Approving the payment to statutory auditors for any  other services rendered by the statutory auditors.
Recommending the appointment of cost auditors of  the Company and review of Cost Audit Report.
Examining, deciding and dealing with all issues relating  to ethics in the Company.
Reviewing functioning of the Whistle-Blower Policy.
Reviewing compliance with SEBI (LODR) and SEBI  (PIT) Regulations.
The Audit Committee has been constituted in line with the provisions of the SEBI (LODR) and the provisions of the Act.
The Audit  Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2024:  Sl.
No.
Name Designation Committee Position 1.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director 2.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director 3.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director  The attendance at the 8 (Eight) meetings of the Audit Committee held during 2023-24 is as under: Sl.
No.
Name Designation 16.05.2023 21.06.2023 27.07.2023 22.08.2023 29.09.2023 30.10.2023 24.01.2024 27.03.2024 1.
Shri Prasenjit  Biswas Independent  Director         2.
Shri Sudipta  Kumar Ray Independent  Director      -   3.
Dr Dattatreya  Rao Sirpurker Independent  Director          The Audit Committee meetings are attended by Director (Finance)/CFO and the Head of Internal Audit as invitees.
The  representatives of the Statutory Auditors are also invited to attend the meetings while considering the quarterly results/annual  financial statements and to discuss the nature and scope of the Annual Audit.
The Cost Auditors are also invited, when the Cost  Audit Report is considered by the Audit Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Audit Committee.
(b) Nomination and Remuneration Committee  The Company being a Government Company, the appointment, including the terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors  are decided by the Government of India.
However, the Board has constituted a Nomination and Remuneration Committee to: 	 approve certain perquisites for whole-time Directors and below Board level executives as well as to approve performance- related pay to the executives of the Company as per the DPE guidelines; 	 create and sanction posts as well as to consider and approve promotions to Grade ‘I’ (Executive Director), i.e., Senior  Management Personnel.
The performance evaluation of the Directors (including Independent Directors) has not been carried out by the Nomination and  Remuneration Committee, as the Company being a Government Company, the powers related to evaluation of Directors vests with  the Government of India.
Such evaluation is exempted for Government Companies under the provisions of the Act.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has been constituted in line with the provisions of the SEBI (LODR) and the  provisions of the Act.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2024:  Sl.
No.
Name Designation Committee Position 1.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director 2.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director 3.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director 4.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director 5.
Shri Sunil Kumar Government Nominee Director 6.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil  The attendance at the 3 (Three) meetings of Nomination and Remuneration Committee held during 2023-24 is as under: Sl.
No.
Name Designation 19.04.2023 07.01.2024 19.03.2024 1.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director    2.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director    3.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director    4.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director    5.
Shri Sunil Kumar Government Nominee Director  - - 6.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil    Chairman Member Chairman Member Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 154 155   The meetings of Nomination and Remuneration Committee are also attended by Functional Directors as invitees.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION:   The remuneration paid to whole-time Directors during 2023- 24 is as under: (J) Name Designation Salaries and  Allowances Performance  Linked  Incentive Other Benefits  & Perquisites Total  Remuneration Shri Shrikant Madhav  Vaidya Chairman 1,32,01,474  18,69,542  14,41,403  1,65,12,419  Shri Satish Kumar  Vaduguri  Director (Marketing)  48,93,565  16,68,652  24,83,400  90,45,617  Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries)  47,70,447  16,93,669  9,96,498  74,60,614  Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning and  Business Development)   49,62,262  16,46,879  24,96,410  91,05,551  Shri Nachimuthu  Senthil Kumar Director (Pipelines)   (w.e.f.
14.08.2023)  33,45,946  5,99,987  21,19,188  60,65,121  Shri Anuj Jain Director (Finance)   (w.e.f.
09.10.2023)  23,93,929  1,57,331  2,42,138  27,93,398  Shri Alok Sharma Director (Research and  Development)  (w.e.f.
16.01.2024)  13,16,141  1,52,907  11,37,295  26,06,343  Ms Rashmi Govil Director (Human Resources)  (w.e.f.
15.03.2024)  2,89,258  1,43,583  7,984  4,40,825  Shri Ranjan Kumar  Mohapatra Director (Human Resources)  (Upto 02.05.2023)  4,09,876  9,00,663  1,13,904  14,24,443  Shri Dayanand  Sadashiv Nanaware  Director (Pipelines)   (Upto 30.06.2023)  85,18,530  8,49,579  47,59,626  1,41,27,735  Dr S S V Ramakumar Director (Research and  Development)   (Upto 31.07.2023)  87,67,682  3,09,598  20,89,302  1,11,66,582  TOTAL 5,28,69,110  99,92,390 1,78,87,148  8,07,48,648   Note:  1.
Performance Linked Incentives are payable to the whole-time Directors as employees of the Company as per the policy  applicable to all executives of the Company.
2.
During the year no Stock Options were issued by the Company.
3.
The terms of appointment of the whole-time Directors, as issued by the Government of India, provides for three months’  notice period or salary in lieu thereof for severance of service.
4.
The remuneration does not include the impact of provision made on actuarial valuation for retirement benefits, long- term schemes and provision made during the period towards Post-Retirement Benefits as the same are not separately  ascertainable for individual Directors.
The Government Nominee Directors are not entitled to any remuneration, sitting fees, etc.
The Independent Directors are not paid any remuneration except sitting fees of H 40,000/- per meeting for attending meetings of  the Board or Committees thereof.
The sitting fees paid during 2023-24 is as under:  Sl.
No.
Name Sitting Fees (J) 1.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung 8,00,000 2.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant 10,80,000 3.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker 11,20,000 4.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas 14,00,000 5.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray 10,80,000 6.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan 10,00,000 7.
Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh 6,00,000 TOTAL 70,80,000  Note: There were no other materially significant pecuniary relationships or transactions of the Independent Directors vis-à- vis the Company.
Shareholding of Directors  The details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on 31.03.2024 are given below:   Sl.
No.
Name Designation No.
of equity shares 1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman 24,858 2.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) 900 3.
Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries) 24,858 4.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning and Business Development) 19,800 5.
Shri Nachimuthu Senthil Kumar Director (Pipelines) 11,000 6.
Shri Anuj Jain Director (Finance) 450 7.
Shri Alok Sharma Director (Research and Development) - 8.
Ms Rashmi Govil Director (Human Resources) 4,633 9.
Shri Sunil Kumar Government Nominee Director - 10.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director - 11.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant Independent Director - 12.
Dr Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker Independent Director - 13.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director - 14.
Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray Independent Director - 15.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan Independent Director - 16.
Dr (Prof) Ram Naresh Singh  Independent Director - (c) Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee  The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee has been constituted in line with the provisions of Regulation 20 of the SEBI (LODR) and  Section 178 of the Act.
The terms of reference of the committee inter-alia include:  - Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including complaints related to transfer/transmission of  shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.
- Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
- Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being rendered by the  Registrar and Share Transfer Agent.
- Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and  ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants, annual reports and statutory notices by the shareholders of the company.
The Committee also approves issuance of share certificates/letter of confirmations.
The Company endeavours to resolve  complaints /grievances/queries of stakeholders and investors within a reasonable period of time.
The Committee comprised the following members as on 31.03.2024 Sl.
No.
Name Designation Committee Position 1.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan Independent Director 2.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director 3.
Shri Anuj Jain Director (Finance) 4.
Ms Rashmi Govil Director (Human Resources) Chairman Member Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 156 157   The attendance at the meeting of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee held during 2023-24 is as under: Sl.
No.
Name Designation 28.03.2024 1.
Shri Krishnan Sadagopan Independent Director  2.
Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung Independent Director  3.
Shri Anuj Jain Director (Finance)  4.
Ms Rashmi Govil Director (Human Resources)   Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani, Company Secretary, acts as the Secretary of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and is also the  Compliance Officer.
Details of Complaints Received and Redressed during 2023-24:  During the year, 4536 complaints were received and resolved.
Further, during the year, 263 requests for change of address,  recording of nomination, issue of duplicate share certificates/dividend warrant, etc.
were received, out of which 4 requests were  pending as on 31.03.2024 and the same were subsequently addressed.
The Company has created a designated email-id investors@indianoil.in  exclusively for investors to enable them to raise their  grievances, if any.
(d) Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Committee  The CSR&SD committee has been constituted in line with the provisions of Section 135 of the Act.
The terms of reference of the  committee inter-alia include:  a) Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which shall indicate the activities to be  undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII in areas or subject, specified in Schedule VII.
b) To operate its activities in providing energy solutions to its customers in a manner that is efficient, safe and ethical, which  optimises the impact on environment and enhances quality of life of the community, while ensuring sustainable growth of  business and the nation.
c) Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred to in clause (a).
d) Monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company from time to time.
e) Institute a transparent monitoring mechanism for implementation of the CSR projects or activities.
The Committee comprised of the following members as on 31.03.2024: Sl.
No.
Name Designation Committee Position 1.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant Independent Director 2.
Shri Prasenjit Biswas Independent Director 3.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) 4.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning and Business  Development) 5.
Shri Anuj Jain Director (Finance)  6.
Ms Rashmi Govil Director (Human Resources)    The attendance at the 9 (Nine) meetings of the CSR&SD Committee held during 2023-24 is as under: Sl.
No.
Name Designation 27.05.2023 28.07.2023 29.09.2023 31.10.2023 01.12.2023 16.01.2024 28.02.2024 09.03.2024 28.03.2024 1.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh  Pant Independent  Director          2.
Shri Prasenjit  Biswas  (w.e.f.
24.06.2023) Independent  Director         3.
Shri Satish Kumar  Vaduguri Director  (Marketing)     -    - 4.
Shri Sujoy  Choudhury Director  (Planning  and Business  Development)          Chairman Member Sl.
No.
Name Designation 27.05.2023 28.07.2023 29.09.2023 31.10.2023 01.12.2023 16.01.2024 28.02.2024 09.03.2024 28.03.2024 5.
Shri Anuj Jain  (w.e.f.
09.10.2023  A/N)  Director  (Finance)       6.
Ms Rashmi Govil   (w.e.f.
15.03.2024) Director (Human  Resources)  7.
Dr Dattatreya Rao  Sirpurker  (upto 23.06.2023) Independent  Director  8.
Shri Sanjay Kaushal  (upto 09.10.2023  F/N) Chief Financial  Officer -    The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the CSR&SD Committee.
The CSR Policy is hosted on the website of the Company on the link https://www.iocl.com/policies.
The CSR Report, as required  under the Act for the year ended 31.03.2024 is annexed to the Director’s Report.
(e) Risk Management Committee  The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee to review the risk management process involving risk assessment  and minimisation procedure as well as to approve the derivative transactions above US$100 Million on a ‘mark to market’ basis.
The Risk Management Committee has been constituted in line with the provisions of the SEBI (LODR).
The Committee comprised  of the following members as on 31.03.2024: Sl.
No.
Name Designation Committee Position 1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil 2.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant Independent Director 3.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing) 4.
Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries) 5.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning and Business  Development) 6.
Shri Anuj Jain Director (Finance) 7.
Shri T.C.
Shankar Chief Risk Officer  The attendance at the 2 (Two) meetings of the Risk Management Committee held during 2023-24 is as under: Sl.
No.
Name Designation 06.09.2023 28.02.2024 1.
Shri Shrikant Madhav Vaidya Chairman, IndianOil   2.
Dr (Prof) Ashutosh Pant Independent Director   3.
Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri Director (Marketing)   4.
Ms Sukla Mistry Director (Refineries)   5.
Shri Sujoy Choudhury Director (Planning and Business  Development)   6.
Shri Anuj Jain (w.e.f 09.10.23) Director (Finance)  7.
Shri T.C.
Shankar Chief Risk Officer   Chairman Member Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 158 159  (f) Other Board Committees:   In addition to the above committees, the Board has delegated certain powers to various Board Committees with distinct roles and  responsibilities.
The composition of such committees as on 31.03.2024 is as under:  Sl.
No.
Name of Committee Role and Responsibilities Members 1 Project Evaluation Committee To appraise projects costing H 250  Crore and above before the projects are  submitted to the Board for approval.
One Independent Director 	 One Government Nominee Director 	 Director (Human Resources) 	 Director (Finance) The Committee is headed by the Independent  Director.
2 Marketing Strategies and  Information Technology  Oversight Committee To evolve the strategies, policies,  guidelines and take decisions on all  matters relating to marketing activities  of the Corporation including revival  of  dealership/distributorships and  to oversee the implementation of IT  strategies of the Corporation.
One Government Nominee Director 	 One Independent Director 	 Director (Refineries) 	 Director (Planning and  Business Development) 	 Director (Finance) 	 Director (Marketing) The Committee is headed by the Government  Nominee Director.
3 De-leasing of Immoveable  Properties Committee To consider de-leasing of Company  leased flats/accommodations/ immoveable properties.
Chairman, IndianOil 	 Director (Finance) 	 Director (Human Resources) 	 Director (Marketing) 	 One Government Nominee Director The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
4 Contracts Committee To approve contracts beyond certain  limits as provided in the Delegation of  Authority of the Corporation.
Chairman, IndianOil 	 All Functional Directors The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
5 Planning and Projects  Committee To consider and approve all project  proposals above H 100 Crore and up to  H 250 Crore 	 Chairman, IndianOil 	 All Functional Directors  The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
6 LNG Sourcing Committee To review the terms and condition of  LNG sales and Purchase Agreement  and recommend the same to Board  for approval for purchase of LNG on  long-term basis.
Chairman , IndianOil 	 Director (Planning and  Business Development) 	 Director (Refineries) 	 Director (Finance)  The Committee is headed by the Chairman of  the Company.
7 Dispute Settlement  Committee To examine and give recommendation  on the settlement proposals having  financial implication of more than H 25  Crore for approval of the Board as per  Conciliation Policy of the Company.
Two Independent Directors 	 Concerned Functional Director 	 Co-opt additional Director, if any.
The Committee is headed by an Independent  Director.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to all the Board Committees.
The composition of various committees of the Board is also hosted on the website of the Company.
The minutes of the meetings of the Board Committee are circulated to the members of the Committee.
The approved minutes  are then circulated to all concerned departments of the Company for necessary action and are also submitted to the Board  for information.
There were no instances wherein recommendation made by any Board Committee were not accepted by the Board of the Company  during 2023-24.
4.
GENERAL MEETINGS  The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company is held in compliance with the provisions of the Act and SEBI (LODR).
The  details of the AGM held during last three years are as under:  2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 Date and  Time 27.08.2021 10.30 AM 25.08.2022 10.00 AM 25.08.2023 10.30 AM Venue In view of the COVID pandemic,  the AGM was conducted Online  through Video Conferencing  (VC)/Other Audio-Visual Means  (OAVM) In view of the COVID pandemic,  the AGM was conducted Online  through Video Conferencing (VC)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) The AGM was conducted Online  through Video Conferencing (VC)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) Special  Resolutions  Passed (nos.)
0 0 1 To increase the Authorised  share capital and consequent  amendment in the MoA and AoA Note: For the AGM conducted through OAVM, the proceedings of the AGM are deemed to be conducted at the registered office of  the Company situated in Mumbai.
No Extraordinary General Meeting of the members was held during 2023-24.
5.
POSTAL BALLOT  No approval of members was sought by means of postal  ballot during the year 2023-24.
There is no immediate proposal for passing any resolution  through Postal Ballot.
None of the businesses proposed  to be transacted at the ensuing AGM require passing the  resolution through Postal Ballot.
6.
DISCLOSURES a.
Independent Directors’ Meeting  During the year, the Independent Director’s met on  28.02.2024 without the presence of Non-Independent  Directors and members of the management.
b.
Related Party Transactions  The Company has a policy on ‘Materiality of Related Party  Transactions and dealing with Related Party Transactions’  which is hosted on the website of the Company and can be  accessed at the following link:   https://www.iocl.com/download/RPT_Policy.pdf  As per the policy, all Related Party Transactions (RPT’s) are  approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee  had granted omnibus approval for related party transactions  during the year 2023-24 in line with the provisions of the  Act, SEBI (LODR) and the policy on RPTs.
A report on such  transactions was submitted to the Audit Committee on a  quarterly basis.
All the related party transactions entered by  the Company during the year were in its ordinary course of  business and on arm’s length basis.
Further, the periodical  disclosure of RPTs on a consolidated basis in the prescribed  format was filed with the Stock Exchanges on half-yearly  basis and also hosted on the website of the Company.
In compliance with the provisions of the SEBI (LODR),  the Company had obtained the approval of members for  material RPTs for the year 2024-25. c. Material Subsidiary Companies  The Company has a ‘Policy for Determining Material  Subsidiaries’ and the same is hosted on the website of the  Company and can be accessed at the following link:   https://www.iocl.com/download/Policies/Material_ Subsidiary_Policy.pdf  There were no material unlisted subsidiaries during  2023-24.
The minutes of the Board Meetings of unlisted  subsidiaries are submitted to the Board of the Company on  a periodic basis.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 160 161  d. Non-compliances/Strictures/Penalties during the  last three years  There was neither any case of non-compliance, nor any  penalties/strictures were imposed on the Company by the  Stock Exchanges/SEBI or any other statutory authority  on any matter related to capital markets during the  last three years.
However, the Company received notices from the National  Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) as well as the BSE  Limited (BSE) regarding non-compliance with the provision  of Reg.
17(1) of SEBI (LODR) for all quarters of the year  2023-24 and imposition of monetary fine for not having  Women Independent Director throughout the year and  requisite number of Independent Directors for the period  01.04.2023 to 02.05.2023 and 16.01.2024 to 31.03.2024 on  the Board.
In response to the notices, the Company clarified  the Exchange(s) that the non-compliance was not due to  any negligence/default of the Company as the appointment  of Directors is done by the Government of India.
In view  thereof, the Company has requested the Exchanges to  waive-off the fines.
The Exchanges have conveyed that the  request for waiver of fines shall be considered as and when  the compliance is achieved by the Company.
e. Proceeds from Public Issues, Right Issues,  Preferential Issues etc  During the year, the Company did not raise any funds  either through issue of equity share capital or bonds/  debentures.
During the year, Company has redeemed the  Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to H 2,000 Crore on  maturity date i.e.
13.04.2023.
The Board of the Company had accorded an approval for  raising Capital upto an amount of H 22,000 Crore by way  of issue of equity shares on Rights basis to eligible equity  members of the Company and the same is in process.
f. Vigil Mechanism and Whistle-Blower Policy   The Company promotes ethical behaviour in all its  business activities and has put in place a mechanism for  reporting illegal or unethical behaviour.
The Company has  laid down procedures and internal controls like Delegation  of Authority, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s),  Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules for employees, etc.
The Vigilance Department, which forms an important part  of the vigil mechanism, undertakes participative, preventive  and punitive action for establishing effective internal control  systems and procedures for minimising systemic failures,  with greater emphasis on participative and preventive  aspects.
The Government Auditors, Statutory Auditors and  Internal Auditors are also important constituents of the vigil  mechanism to review the activities of the Company and  report observations on any deficiency or irregularities.
The Company has framed a Whistle-Blower Policy wherein  the employees are free to report any improper activity  resulting in violations of laws, rules, regulations or code of  conduct by any of the employees, including leakage/misuse  of unpublished price sensitive information in violation of  IndianOil’s Insider Trading Code, to the Competent Authority  or Chairman of the Audit Committee, as the case may be.
Any complaint received would be reviewed by the Competent  Authority or Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The policy  provides that the confidentiality of those reporting violations  shall be maintained and they shall not be subjected to any  discriminatory practice.
No employee has been denied  access to the Audit Committee.
The Whistle-Blower policy is hosted on  the website of the Company on the link   https://www.iocl.com/InvestorCenter/pdf/Whistle_ Blower_policy.pdf g. Code for Prevention of Insider Trading in securities  of IndianOil and Practices and Procedure for  Fair Disclosure  In terms of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations  2015, as amended from time to time, the Company has  adopted a Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report  trading by designated persons in listed or proposed to be  listed securities of the Company (‘the Code’).
The Code aims  at preserving and preventing misuse of unpublished price  sensitive information.
The code of practices and procedures  for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive Information  is hosted on the website of the Company.
h. CEO/CFO Certification  The Chairman and Director (Finance) of the Company have  given the ‘CEO/CFO Certification’ to the Board.
i.
Integrity Pact  The Company has signed a Memorandum of Understanding  (MoU) with Transparency International India (TII) in 2008 for  implementing the Integrity Pact (IP) Programme focused on  enhancing transparency, probity, equity and competitiveness  in its procurement process.
Presently, three Independent External Monitors (IEMs) have  been nominated by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC)  to monitor the implementation of IP in all tenders of the  threshold value of H 10 Crore and above, across the Company.
During the year, 11 meetings with the IEMs were held.
Based on the above threshold value, 555 tenders came  under the purview of the IP during 2023-24 against which  9 complaints were received which were referred to the IEMs  and deliberated during the year.
j.
Relationship Between Directors  None of the Directors is inter-se related to other Directors  of the Company.
k. Details of Familiarisation Programmes for  Independent Directors  The details of familiarisation programmes imparted  to Independent Directors are hosted on the website  of the Company and can be accessed at the link   https://iocl.com/download/IDFP .pdf l. Outstanding Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) / American Depository Receipts (ADRs)/Warrants or any  Convertible instruments:  The Company has not issued any GDRs/ADRs/Warrants  or any convertible instruments and therefore there is no  outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible  instruments as on 31.03.2024. m. Disclosure Regarding Commodity Price Risk and  Hedging Activities  (i) Entity’s Risk Management Policy w.r.t.
Commodities  and its Hedging:   The Company is exposed to a number of commodity  price risks such as variation in refining margins, i.e.,  the difference between refined product price and crude  price, risk of value erosion in inventory due to prices, risk  of higher crude prices on crude consumed in refining  system, risk of variation in prices of LNG on refinery  consumption, risk of price variations on imports of  petroleum products and LNG for marketing, etc.
The Company assesses these risks and based on  potential of these risks being realised, appropriate  hedging positions are undertaken using hedging tools  allowed to be traded under laws in India to monitor and  manage significant risks.
The Company has a Board-approved policy for the  risk management covering the exposure towards  commodities, commodity risk and hedged exposure.
(ii) Exposure to Commodity and Commodity Risks Faced  Throughout the Year:  (a) Total Estimated Exposure of the Company to  Commodities:     The value of inventory held by the Company  for raw material, stock in process, finished  goods and stock in trade as on 31.03.2024 is  ₹1,06,307 Crore  (b) Exposure of the Company to Material Commodities: Commodity Name Exposure in  INR towards  the  particular  commodity# Exposure in  Quantity terms  towards the  particular  commodity % of such exposure hedged through commodity derivative Domestic Market International  market Total (J) in Crore In MMT OTC Exchange OTC Exchange Refining Margin 4,200 66.698 NIL NIL 0.49% NIL 0.49% Inventory  as on 31.03.2024 - Crude Oil 4,000 8.099 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL -  Finished Goods (including  Stock in Trade) 5,300 7.372 NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL  (c) Commodity Risks faced by the Company during the  year and how they have been managed:   The primary commodity risk faced by the Company  is the risk around price movement in crude oil,  refined products and LNG.
Any adverse movement in  commodity prices may affect the margin.
Similarly, any  favourable movement in prices can also allow margins  to rise.
Hedging activities are targeted at fixing a price  for reducing uncertainties/volatalities in future cash  flows.
n. Disclosures in relation to Sexual Harassment of  Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and  Redressal) Act, 2013  5 (Five) complaints of sexual harassment were pending as  on 01.04.2023.
During the year, 8 (Eight) complaints were  received, and 8 (Eight) complaints were disposed-off.
As on  31.03.2024, 5 (Five) complaints were pending.
o.
Disclosure by the Company and its Subsidiaries of  ‘Loans and Advances’ in the nature of Loans to Firms/ Companies in which Directors are Interested by  name and amount.
The Company has not provided any Loans and Advances to  firms or Companies in which Directors are interested.
p. Fees Paid to Statutory Auditors  An amount of H 5.30 Crore is paid/payable to the Statutory  Auditors of the Company for the year 2023-24 towards  various services rendered by them to the Company .
q.
Compliance Report on Corporate Governance  The Company has submitted the quarterly/half yearly/  annual compliance report on Corporate Governance in  the prescribed format to the stock exchange(s) within the  prescribed time period.
The same is also hosted on the  website of the Company.
#Estimated impact for each 10% variation in exposure has been given for the particular commodity Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 162 163  r. Compliance with the Mandatory Requirements  of SEBI (LODR)   The Company adheres to the provisions of the laws and  guidelines of regulatory authorities including SEBI and  covenants in the agreements with the Stock Exchanges  and Depositories.
The Company has complied with all the  mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 17 to  27 and Regulation 46(2)(b) to 46(2)(i) of the SEBI (LODR),  except as given below:  - The Board did not have Woman Independent Director  during the year 2023-24.
- The Board did not comprise of at least 50% Independent  Directors during the period April 1, 2023 to May 2, 2023  and January 16, 2024 to March 31, 2024.
The Company, being a Government Company under the  administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum and  Natural Gas (MoP&NG), the power to appoint Directors  (including Independent Directors) and their performance  evaluation vests with the Government of India.
The Company is following up with the MoP&NG on a regular  basis to appoint the requisite number of Directors to ensure  compliance with SEBI (LODR).
s. Adoption of the Non-mandatory  Requirements of SEBI (LODR)  The Company has not adopted any discretionary  requirements provided under Part E of Schedule II of SEBI  (LODR).
However, the Statutory Auditors have expressed  un-modified opinion on the Financial Statements for  the year 2023-24. t. Particulars of senior management including the changes  therein since the close of the previous financial year  The list of senior management including changes therein are  hosted on the website of the Company and can be accessed  at the link Particulars of Senior Management Personnel.
u.
Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding  the Company (Clause 5A of Paragraph A of Part A of  Schedule III of SEBI (LODR)   There are no agreements impacting management or control  of the Company or imposing any restriction or create any  liability upon the Company.
v. Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account/unclaimed suspense account   In accordance with the requirement of regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V of SEBI (LODR), details of equity shares in the  suspense account are as follows: Particulars Number of Members Number of Equity Shares Aggregate number of Members and the outstanding shares in the suspense  account lying as on 01.04.2023 - - Members whose shares were transferred to the suspense account during the  year  1 12 Members who approached the Company for transfer of shares from suspense  account during the year - - Members to whom shares were transferred from the suspense account  during the year - - Aggregate number of Members and the outstanding shares in the suspense  account lying as on 31.03.2024 1 12 w. Guidelines on Corporate Governance by Department of  Public Enterprise (DPE)  The Company is complying with all the requirements of the  DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance except with regard  to composition of the Board as stated in para (r) above.
The Company also scrupulously follows the Presidential  Directives and guidelines issued by the Government of India  regarding reservation in services for SC/ST/,OBC, PwBD  (Persons with Benchmark Disabilities)/Ex-servicemen/ Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) to promote  inclusive growth.
No items of expenditure have been debited in books of  account, which are not for the purpose of business.
No  expenses, which are of personal nature, have been incurred  for the Board of Directors and the top management.
The regular administrative and office expenses were 0.97%  of total expenses during 2023-24 as against 1.53% during  the previous year.
The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on 31.03.2024, shall remain frozen till the rightful owner  of such shares claims the shares.
7.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION a.
Financial Results  The quarterly audited/unaudited financial results are  announced within the time prescribed under the SEBI  (LODR).
The results are published in leading newspapers  like The Economic Times, Business Standard, The Hindu  Business Line, The Financial Express, Mint and Maharashtra  Times (Marathi Newspaper).
The quarterly/annual financial  results are hosted on the Company’s website www.iocl.
com.
The half-yearly financial results are also sent to the  members over e-mail.
The Company issues news releases  on significant corporate decisions/activities and posts them  on its website as well as informs the stock exchanges as  and when deemed necessary.
b.
Conference call with Investors  Prior intimation of conference calls, if any, to discuss  financial performance of the Company is given to the  stock exchanges and is also hosted on the website of the  Company as per the provisions of SEBI (LODR).
During the  year, no conference call was arranged by the Company.
c. News Releases  Official press releases, detailed presentations made to  media, analysts, institutional investors, etc.
are displayed on  the Company’s website at https://iocl.com/news-releases d. Website  The Company’s website www.iocl.com provides a separate  section for investors where relevant information is available.
The Integrated Annual Report of the Company is also hosted  on the Company’s website.
e. Integrated Annual Report  The Integrated Annual Report is circulated to members and  others entitled thereto.
The Management Discussion and  Analysis (MDA) Report and Corporate Governance Report  forms part of the Integrated Annual Report.
f. Chairman’s Speech at AGM  The Chairman read out his speech at the AGM which was  held through VC/OAVM on 25.08.2023.
The same was also  placed on the website of the Company for information of the  members at https://iocl.com/pages/Annual%20General%20 Meeting g. Webcast of AGM Proceedings  The AGM for the year 2022-23 was held through VC/OAVM  on 25.08.2023.
The live webcast of the proceedings of  the AGM along with the option to ask queries/grievances  and interact with the management of the Company was  provided to the members.
h. Investor Service Cell  The Investor Service Cell exists at Registered Office of  the Company in Mumbai and the Corporate Office in New  Delhi as well as at KFin Technologies Limited, Registrar and  Transfer Agent (RTA) office in Hyderabad to address the  grievances/queries of members/debenture holders.
To facilitate the investors to raise queries/ grievances   through electronic mode, separate e-mail ID viz.
investors@indianoil.in and einward.ris@kfintech.com has  been provided.
i.
SCORES (SEBI Complaints Redressal System)   SEBI has provided a centralised web-based complaints- redressal system named SCORES, through which an  investor can lodge complaint(s) against a Company.
j.
Green Initiative – Service of Documents in  Electronic Form  The provisions of the Act permits paperless communication  by allowing service of all documents in electronic mode.
Further, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) as well  as the SEBI, has permitted that all communication to  members may be served electronically.
In compliance  thereof, the Company has adopted the practice of sending  communications, including Integrated Annual Report,  through email to those members whose email id is available  as per registered records and physical copy to those who  request for the same.
k. Shareholders Satisfaction Survey  During the year, Company conducted shareholders satisfaction survey to gather valuable feedback on the services provided by the  Company and its Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA), KFin Technologies Limited.
6228 shareholders participated in the survey and  the feedback received is as under: Excellent Very Good Good Satisfactory Needs  Improvement Did Not Rate 55% 23% 11% 3% 4% 3% Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 164 165  8.
GENERAL MEMBER INFORMATION (a) Annual General Meeting: Date, Time and Mode  of the Annual General  Meeting Friday, 09.08.2024 at  10:00 AM  Through Video  Conferencing (VC)/Other  Audio Visual Means (OAVM)  (b) Financial Year:  The Financial Year of the Company is from April 1 to March  31.
The financial calendar to approve quarterly/annual  financial results for the year 2024-25 is as under: Quarter ending June 30,  2024 On or before August 14,  2024 Quarter ending September  30, 2024 On or before November 14,  2024 Quarter ending December  31, 2024 On or before February 14,  2025 Quarter and year ending  March 31, 2025 On or before May 30, 2025 The trading window closure period for dealing in securities  of the Company is informed to the stock exchanges and also  hosted on the website of the Company.
The Trading Window  generally remains closed for ‘Insiders’ of the Company from  the end of each quarter till 48 hours after the financial  results for the quarter are filed with stock exchanges and  become generally available, unless otherwise informed by  Company Secretary.
(c) Dividend:   During the year, the Company declared Interim Dividend of    ₹ 5 per share in the month of October, 2023 which was paid  to the eligible members within the stipulated period of 30  days as provided under the Companies Act 2013.
In addition, a final dividend of H 7 per share, as recommended  by the Board of Directors, subject to approval of the  members of the Company at the AGM, shall be paid to the  eligible members within the stipulated period of 30 days,  after the AGM, as provided under the Companies Act, 2013.
The Company has fixed Friday, 12.07.2024 as the Record  Date to ascertain the eligibility of members to receive the  final dividend, if declared at the AGM.
(d) Listing of Securities on Stock Exchanges:  - The equity shares of the Company are listed on the  BSE and the NSE.
The address of the BSE and NSE is  provided in the Integrated Annual Report.
- The debt securities issued by the Company are  listed on the Debt Segment of the BSE and the  NSE.
The Company has appointed SBICAP Trustee  Company Limited as the Debenture Trustee for the  debt securities.
- The Company has paid listing fees in respect of its  listed securities to both the stock exchanges for  the year 2023-24.
(e) Corporate Identity Number (CIN):  The Company is registered with the Registrar of Companies (RoC) in the State of Maharashtra, India.
The CIN allotted to the  Company by the MCA is L23201MH1959GOI011388.
(f) ISIN Number of Equity Shares  : INE 242A01010 (g) Stock Code at BSE    : 530965 (h) Stock Code at NSE    : IOC (i) Details of Debentures outstanding as on 31.03.2024: Series ISIN Issue Date Maturity Tenure Rate of  Interest Issue Size   (J Crore) XIV INE242A08437 22.10.2019 22.10.2029 10 Years 7.41% 3000.00 XVI INE242A08452 06.03.2020 06.03.2025 5 Years 6.39% 2995.00 XVIII INE242A08478 03.08.2020 11.04.2025 4 Years 8 months 8 days 5.40% 1625.00 XIX INE242A08486 20.10.2020 20.10.2025 5 Years 5.50% 2000.00 XX INE242A08494 25.01.2021 23.01.2026 4 Years 11 months 29 days 5.60% 1290.20 XXI INE242A08502 18.02.2022 18.02.2027 5 Years 6.14% 1500.00 XXII INE242A08510 21.04.2022 19.04.2024 1 Year 11 months 29 days 5.84% 2500.00 XXIII INE242A08528 17.06.2022 12.04.2032 9 Years 9 months 26 days 7.79% 2500.00 XXIV INE242A08536 06.09.2022 06.09.2027 5 Years 7.14% 2500.00 XXV INE242A08544 25.11.2022 25.11.2027 5 Years 7.44% 2500.00 Month BSE NSE High (J) Low (J) Volume High (J) Low (J) Volume April 2023 81.50 76.76 90,84,735 81.55 76.80 12,20,52,309 May 2023 91.43 81.40 2,52,99,959 91.40 81.40 28,43,69,646 June 2023 93.70 88.60 2,64,98,202 93.70 88.65 24,18,83,130 July 2023 101.44 91.31 3,60,90,959 101.45 91.30 40,80,62,997 August 2023 94.79 89.00 1,33,84,043 94.75 88.95 20,40,37,083 September 2023 95.90 88.83 2,46,09,024 96.00 88.75 31,85,55,610 October 2023 92.47 85.51 1,67,37,059 92.50 85.50 21,89,36,771 November 2023 112.34 90.50 6,72,45,625 112.50 90.45 82,77,88,802 December 2023 133.95 110.60 5,17,34,067 133.95 110.60 58,08,32,808 January 2024 152.15 128.50 6,21,64,347 152.20 128.50 61,21,31,574 February 2024 196.80 147.05 8,21,50,151 196.80 147.05 115,08,33,758 March 2024 178.35 153.60 3,71,16,773 178.35 153.60 56,56,72,160 (j) Stock Market Data:  The market price and volume of the Company’s equity shares (face value H 10 each) traded on the BSE and NSE during 2023-24  are given below:  (k) Stock Price Performance in Comparison to Broad-based Indices:   During 2023-24, the price of the equity shares of the Company opened at H 77.14 on 03.04.2023 and closed at H 167.75 on  31.03.2024 on the BSE, thereby increasing by 117.46%.
During the same period, the BSE SENSEX opened at 59,131 and closed at  73,651 thereby increasing by 24.56%.
The NSE NIFTY opened at 17,428 and closed at 22,327 thereby increasing by 28.11%.
The relative comparison (on base of 100) of the monthly closing price of the Company’s equity share vis-a-vis BSE SENSEX and  NSE NIFTY during 2023-24 is as under:  (l) Registrar and Transfer Agents (RTA):  KFin Technologies Limited  Selenium Building Tower B, Plot 31-32,   Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally  Hyderabad – 500 032  Toll Free No.
:  1800 309 4001  E-mail Address  : einward.ris@kfintech.com  Website  : www.kfintech.com RELATIVE MOVEMENT OF INDIANOIL  SHARE CLOSING PRICE  VIS-A-VIS BSE SENSEX DURING 2023-24 RELATIVE MOVEMENT OF INDIANOIL  SHARE CLOSING PRICE   VIS-À-VIS NSE NIFTY DURING 2023-24 Apr-23 Apr-23 May-23 May-23 Jun-23 Jun-23 Jul-23 Jul-23 Aug-23 Aug-23 Sep-23 Sep-23 Oct-23 Oct-23 Nov-23 Nov-23 Dec-23 Dec-23 Jan-24 Jan-24 Feb-24 Feb-24 Mar-24 Mar-24 IOC Share Price IOC Share PriceBSE SENSEX NSE NIFTYBase 100 = April 2023 Base 100 = April 2023 225 225 200 200 175 175 150 150 125 125 100 100 75 75 50 50 25 25 - - (m) Share Transfer System:  The equity shares of the Company are traded in dematerialised form.
Pursuant to the SEBI guidelines, no physical transfer of  shares is allowed.
Further to SEBI circular dated 25.01.2022, the Company has been issuing securities in dematerialised form only  while processing the requests for issue of duplicate share certificates, transmission, transposition etc.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 166 167  (n) Distribution of Shareholding as on 31.03.2024: Sl.
No.
Nominal Value of Equity  Shares (J) No.
of Members (Folios) % of Members Amount (J) % of Amount 1.
1 -  5000 22,27,963 89.33 170,80,47,640 1.21 2.
5001 - 10000 1,19,496 4.79 89,75,22,440 0.64 3.
10001 - 20000 67,869 2.72 98,51,55,040 0.70 4.
20001 - 30000 23,897 0.96 60,91,85,110 0.43 5.
30001 - 40000 12,216 0.49 42,88,45,450 0.30 6.
40001 - 50000 8,286 0.33 38,33,77,950 0.27 7.
50001 - 100000 16,139 0.65 116,43,25,130 0.82 8.
100001 and  Above 18,343 0.73 13503,59,25,070 95.63 Total 24,94,209            100.00    14121,23,83,830 100.00 Sl.
No.
Category Members (Folios) Equity Shares No.
% No.
% I PROMOTER SHAREHOLDING 1.
President of India 1 0.00 727,21,99,767 51.50 II PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING 2.
Governor of Gujarat 1 0.00 1,62,00,000 0.11 3.
Oil and Natural Gas  Corporation Ltd. (Government  Company)  1 0.00 200,58,22,884 14.20 4.
Oil India Ltd. (Government  Company) 1 0.00 72,83,85,744 5.16 5.
Corporate Bodies 2,966 0.12 5,43,26,939 0.39 6.
FIIs /NRIs/FPIs 18,387 0.74 123,04,18,573 8.71 7.
Banks/Indian Financial  Institutions 24 0.00 1,18,870 0.00 8.
Mutual Funds 123 0.00 33,04,09,394 2.34 9.
Insurance Companies 6 0.00 7,24,83,289 0.51 10.
Public 24,72,467 99.13 99,49,78,682 7.05 11.
Trusts 128 0.01 35,19,47,905 2.49 12.
Investor Education and  Protection Fund 1 0.00 75,76,161 0.05 13 Qualified Institutional Buyer 46 0.00 103,87,29,697 7.36 14 Others (NBFC Clearing  Members AIF) 57 0.00 1,76,40,478 0.13 Total (I+II) 24,94,209 100.00 1412,12,38,383 100.00 (o) Shareholding Pattern as on 31.03.2024:  (p) Top 10 members as on 31.03.2024: Sl.
No.
Name No.
of Equity Shares % To Equity Shares 1.
President of India 727,21,99,767 51.50% 2.
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited 200,58,22,884 14.20% 3.
Life Insurance Corporation of India 97,77,88,060 6.92% 4.
Oil India Limited 72,83,85,744 5.16% 5.
IOC Shares Trust 34,96,77,684 2.48% 6.
SBI Mutual Fund 10,04,43,271 0.71% 7.
ICICI Mutual Fund 6,07,00,923 0.43% 8.
Kotak Equity Hybrid 5,96,14,482 0.42% 9.
Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund 5,63,18,698 0.40% 10.
Vanguard EM Stock Index Fund 5,49,01,758 0.39% Financial Year Rate (%) Remarks 2013-14 87 % - 2014-15 66 % - 2015-16 140 % Includes Interim Dividend of 55% 2016-17 190 % Includes interim dividend of 180% 2017-18 210% Includes Interim Dividend of 190% 2018-19 92.50% Includes Interim Dividend of 82.50% 2019-20 42.50% Interim Dividend of 42.50%.
No final dividend was declared.
2020-21 120% Includes Interim Dividend of 105% 2021-22 114% Includes Interim Dividend of 90% 2022-23 30% - Financial Year Ratio 1999-00 1:1 2003-04 1:2 2009-10 1:1 2016-17 1:1 2017-18 1:1 2022-23 1:2 (s) Unclaimed Dividend and Equity Shares Transferred  to Investor Education and Protection Fund  (IEPF) Authority:  Section 124 of the Act provides that any dividend that has  remained unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven years  from the date of transfer to an unpaid dividend account  shall be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund (IEPF), established by the Central Government.
The Company sends reminder letters to the members,  advising them to lodge their claim for such unpaid dividend.
Thereafter the unpaid/unclaimed dividend is transferred to  the IEPF authority on the due date.
Accordingly, the unpaid/ unclaimed dividend of H1,92,03,175 for the Financial Year  2015-16 (Final Dividend 2015-16) and H 5,17,26,183 for  Type of Shareholding Members (Folios) Shareholding No.
% No.
% Physical 2,857 0.11 1,52,13,153 0.11 NSDL 5,83,025 23.38 1161,92,33,295 82.28 CDSL 19,08,327 76.51 248,67,91,935 17.61 TOTAL 24,94,209 100.00 1412,12,38,383 100.00 (q) Dematerialisation of Equity Shares and Liquidity:  The equity shares of the Company are traded in dematerialised form.
To facilitate the members to dematerialise the equity shares,  the Company has entered into an agreement with NSDL and CDSL.
The summarised position of members in Physical and Demat  segment as on 31.03.2024 is as under:  (r) Corporate Action:  i) Dividend History:   The Company has been consistently declaring dividend.
The dividend paid during the last 10 financial years is given below:  ii) Bonus Issue since listing of the Equity Shares: the Financial Year 2016-17 (1 st Interim Dividend 2016-17)  were transferred to the IEPF authority on 23.10.2023 and  12.03.2024 respectively.
The details of dividend which remains unpaid/unclaimed  with the Company as on 31.03.2024 are given below:  Year Amount (J) 2016-17 (2nd Interim)        1,87,34,310.50 2016-17 (Final)          49,20,249.00 2017-18 (Interim)         6,18,76,122.00 2017-18 (Final)         1,65,70,178.00 2018-19 (1st Interim)         4,12,40,751.75 2018-19 (2nd Interim)           1,03,42,541.00 2018-19 (Final)             68,24,999.00 2019-20 (Interim)            3,07,78,984.50 2020-21 (1st Interim)             4,03,46,892.00 2020-21 (2nd Interim)              1,90,74,020.00 2020-21 (Final)               91,86,042.50 2021-22 (1st Interim)               2,51,75,003.00 2021-22 (2nd Interim)             2,10,87,980.00 2021-22 (Final) 2,02,53,243.60 2022-23 (Final) 2,25,73,023.00 2023-24 (Interim) 3,46,07,538.00 Total            38,35,91,877.85 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 168 169  Instrument Rating Agency Rating Outlook Senior unsecured Debt - Foreign Currency Moody’s Baa3 Stable Senior unsecured Debt - Foreign Currency Fitch BBB- Stable Non-Convertible Debenture CRISIL CRISIL AAA Stable Non-Convertible Debenture India Ratings IND AAA Stable Non-Convertible Debenture ICRA [ICRA] AAA Stable Bank Facilities - Long Term CRISIL CRISIL AAA Stable Bank Facilities - Short Term CRISIL CRISIL A1+ - Commercial Paper ICRA [ICRA] A1+ - Commercial Paper India Ratings IND A1+ -  The IEPF rules notified by the MCA further provides that  details of all unpaid/unclaimed dividend as on the closure  of year, shall be filed with the MCA and also hosted on the  website of the Company within 60 days from the date of the  AGM.
Accordingly, the Company has filed the information as  on March 31, 2023 with the MCA and also hosted it on the  Company’s website within the prescribed period.
Section 124(6) of the Act, provides that all shares in respect  of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven  consecutive years or more shall be transferred by the  Company in the name of the IEPF.
Section 125 further  provides that a member whose dividend amount/shares  have been transferred to the IEPF shall be entitled to claim a  refund therefrom.
In line with the IEPF Rules, the Company sends reminder  letters to all such members, whose dividend has remained  unpaid/unclaimed for a consecutive period of seven years  with a request to claim the dividends, failing which the  equity shares would be transferred to the IEPF Authority  on the due date.
Accordingly, equity shares in respect of Interim Dividend 15- 16, Final Dividend 2015-16 and 1st Interim Dividend 2016-17  which had remained unpaid/ unclaimed for a consecutive  period of seven years, were transferred to the demat  account of the IEPF authority on 06.04.2023, 01.11.2023  and 23.03.2024 respectively.
The details of such equity  shares are hosted on the website of the Company.
The summary of equity shares lying in the demat account of  IEPF authority as on 31.03.2024 is given below:  Particulars No.
of Shares Equity Shares in the demat account of  IEPF Authority as on 01.04.2023 68,19,700 Add: Equity Shares transferred to demat  account of IEPF authority on account of  unpaid dividend for seven consecutive  years.
7,84,529 Less: Equity Shares refunded by the IEPF  authority to the investor 28,068 Equity Shares in the demat account of  IEPF Authority as on 31.03.2024 75,76,161 (t) Credit Rating   The Credit rating assigned to the Company for various debt instruments by rating agencies is as under:  (u) Plant Locations:  The addresses of the major plant locations and offices are given in the Integrated Annual Report.
(v) Address for Correspondence:  Company Secretary  Indian Oil Corporation Limited  Indian Oil Bhavan  G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg  Bandra (East)  Mumbai - 400051  Tel.
No.
: (022) 26447327/26447150  E-mail ID : investors@indianoil.in  The procedure for claiming the unpaid dividend amount and equity shares transferred to the IEPF Authority is provided on the link:  http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARIES CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE To,  The Members, INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate  Governance by Indian Oil Corporation Limited (hereinafter  referred as “Company”) for the  year ended March 31, 2024 as  prescribed under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of  Regulation 46(2) and part C and D of Schedule V of  the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred as “ SEBI  (LODR)”) and the guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central  Public Sector Enterprises, as enunciated by the Department of  Public Enterprises (“DPE”).
We state that compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance  and preparation of Corporate Governance Report is the  responsibility of the management of the Company.
Auditor’s Responsibility a.
Our examination was limited to procedures and  implementation thereof adopted by the Company for  ensuring compliance with conditions of Corporate  Governance.
It is neither an audit nor an expression of  opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
b.
Our procedures include in depth verification of Secretarial  records and other related documents for assessment of the  compliance of the Corporate Governance Report.
c. The particulars of the Corporate Governance Report  have been verified basis the documentary evidence and  supporting made available to us by the management  of the Company.
d. Our examination of the Corporate Governance Report  was conducted in accordance with the Referencer issued  by Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) on  Corporate Governance Certification under SEBI (LODR).
Opinion In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according  to our examination of the relevant records and the explanations  given to us, we certify that the Company has complied with the  conditions of Corporate Governance as prescribed under SEBI  (LODR) and DPE Guidelines except for the following : a) Regulation 17 (1) (a) of SEBI (LODR), regarding the  requirement of having at least One-Woman Independent  Director during the year 2023-24. b) Regulation 17 (1) (b) of SEBI (LODR), regarding the  requirement of having at least half of the Board of Directors  as Independent Director for the period 01.04.2023 to  02.05.2023 and 16.01.2024 to 31.03.2024.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance  as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or  effectiveness with which the management has conducted the  affairs of the Company.
This certificate is issued solely for the purposes of complying  with the provisions of SEBI (LODR) and DPE Guidelines and it  should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose.
For Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500) Sd/- (Aditi Patnaik) Partner ACS No.
: 45308 CP No.
: 18186 Place : Mumbai UDIN : A045308F000591205 Date : 19.06.2024 PR No : 3686/2023 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 170 171  Management’s Discussion & Analysis 1.
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE & OUTLOOK  In 2023, global growth remained resilient at 3.2% despite  high interest rates and increased incidence of geo-political  conflicts, albeit lower than 3.5% growth recorded in 2022.
The strong global economic performance benefited from  better-than-expected growth in the United States (US).
In  the US, consumer spending drove GDP growth supported  by accumulated household savings, tight job-markets, and  expansionary fiscal policy.
On the other hand, the euro  area, witnessed a tardy growth reflecting weak consumer  sentiment, the lingering effects of high energy prices, and  weakness in interest-rate-sensitive manufacturing and  business investment.
In China, growth accelerated to  5.2% in 2023 after hitting the second lowest growth in 40  years of 3.0% in 2022 but remained below expectations  and much below its historical (pre-pandemic rates) rates  amid a protracted property crisis, sluggish consumer, and  business confidence.
In contrast, the Indian economy  achieved robust growth and surpassed expectation of  6-7% growth by accelerating to 7.8% in 2023-24 from 7.0%  in 2022-23.
The surge in growth in India was driven by a  surge in investment supported by the government's capital  expenditure boost and resurgence in manufacturing sector  growth despite slowdown in Indian Agriculture due to below  normal and uneven monsoons.
4.6 5.2 3.0 8.4 6.8 7.8 2.7 2.5 1.9 5.8 0.8 0.4 3.4 5.9 3.2 3.2 3.5 6.5 7.0 9.7 World Euro Area United States India* China 2021 2022 2023 2024 (F) GDP Growth (%) *For India, data is presented on a fiscal year basis, with 2023 representing 2023-24; F refers to Forecast Source: International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook, April 2024 Solar power plant at Sanand LPG Bottling Plant, Gujarat  There was softening in inflation rates across the globe  from the peak of 2022 benefitting from steep descent in  commodity prices.
India too was able to control inflation  despite challenges on the food inflation front.
In 2024, global economy is expected to maintain the  economic momentum and grow at broadly the same rates  as 2023 and inflation is also expected to continue declining,  although downside risks in the form of furthering of geo- political tensions remain.
Interest rates are expected to  decline during the year although the pace and quantum  would remain contingent on the evolving inflation situation.
Indian economy in 2024-25 is expected to remain the fastest  growing large economy with GDP growth projected to be  6.8%.
The economy would benefit from fiscal rebalancing,  increased digitalisation, strong domestic demand, and  a good monsoon.
2.
GLOBAL ENERGY SECTOR  The year witnessed notable global occurrences.
Throughout  2023, the global energy markets experienced volatility  amid the ongoing post Covid-19 recovery and disruptions  stemming from the Russia-Ukraine conflict and other  geopolitical tensions in the Middle East.
Additionally,  COP 28 emphasised the imperative need for a definitive  transition to sustainable energy sources from fossil fuels in  energy systems in a just, orderly, and equitable manner to  achieve Net-Zero by 2050.
COP 28 also recognised the role  of “transitional fuels” such as gas in “facilitating the energy  transition while ensuring energy security”, highlighting the  current challenge of balancing energy security with the goal  of Net-Zero emissions.
Concerns regarding energy security  and emissions further propelled the adoption of renewables  as the world moves towards a greener future with reduced  carbon footprint.
1.0 0.2 2.0 0.9 4.6 5.4 2.9 4.1 8.0 4.7 2.4 5.4 8.3 2.5 5.9 6.8 8.7 4.7 6.7 5.5 World Euro Area United States India* China 2021 2022 2023 2024 (F) Inflation Rate (%)  *For India, data is presented on a fiscal year basis, with 2023 representing 2023-24; F refers to Forecast Source: International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook, April 2024 2.1.
Oil Market  In 2023, there was a steady rise in global demand for oil,  comparable to the rise in 2022.
The increase amounted to  approximately 2.3 Million barrels per day (mbpd), bringing  the total demand to a record high of 102 mbpd.
China  contributed significantly to this rise, accounting for 1.7 mbpd  as the country recovered from COVID-19 restrictions.
On the  other hand, demand growth in OECD markets, notably OECD  Europe, slowed down due to sluggish economic growth.
Looking ahead, in 2024, most of the increase in global oil  demand, totalling 78%, is projected to be driven by China,  India, and Brazil.
This surge is anticipated to propel global oil  demand to a record high of 103.2 Million barrels per day.
Global oil supply increased by around 2 mbpd to 102.1 mbpd  in 2023 slightly higher than the demand.
Robust growth in  non-OPEC+ supplies, which increased by 2.4 mbpd in 2023  drove oil supply during the year.
Most of the non-OPEC  growth came from the USA and Brazil, which accounted for  around 1.5 mbpd and 0.4 mbpd increase, respectively.
On  the other hand, OPEC+ announced a series of compulsory  and voluntary output cuts to counter the increase in  production from non-OPEC+ countries.
During the year,  global markets also adjusted to new trade dynamics, with  crude oil and refined petroleum products from Russia  finding destinations outside the European Union.
Global Oil Demand & Supply (mbpd) 104 102 100 98 96 94 92 -1.5 -2.5 -0.5 0.5 1.5 2.5 2021 2022 2023 Demand Supply Total Stock Change -20 0.4 0.1 95.5 99.7  100.1 102  102.1 97.5 Source: International Energy Agency, Oil Market Report, March 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 172 173   During 2023, despite OPEC+ implementing deepened and  extended production cuts, international crude oil prices  plummeted by nearly 20%.
However, heightened volatility  characterised oil prices in the latter half of 2023, influenced  by both OPEC+ production cuts and the conflict in the  Middle East.
Brent averaged $83 per barrel in 2023, a decline  from $101 per barrel in the previous year.
Price for Brent  surpassed US$90/bbl in early April 2024 for the first time  since October 2023, largely owing to escalating tensions  in the Middle East, attacks on Russian refineries and an  extension of OPEC+ outputs cuts.
Refining margins in 2023 significantly cooled compared  to the highs experienced in 2022, particularly following the  Russia-Ukraine war, which saw a surge in middle distillate  refining margins.
Despite this, refining margins remained  relatively strong compared to previous years due to several  factors.
These included the closure of 4.8 Million barrels per  day (mbpd) of refining capacity since the beginning of 2020,  limited spare refining capacity, low inventory levels, delays  in refinery capacity expansions relative to demand growth,  production disruptions exceeding average refinery outages/ turnarounds, and logistical issues arising from disruptions  in the Red Sea and Panama Canal.
2.2.
Gas Market  Overall, global gas demand remained stagnant in 2023, with  a modest increase of only 0.5% or 22 Billion cubic meters  (bcm) year-on-year.
The Asia Pacific region saw a rise of  about 24 bcm, primarily fuelled by China and India's power  and industrial sectors.
While North America experienced  slight growth in consumption, Europe saw a decline of 36  bcm, reaching its lowest level since 1996 and dropping  about 22% below its 2005 peak.
The decline in Europe was  attributed to reduced electricity usage, greater integration  of renewable energy sources, improved efficiency, policy  mandates, and a mild winter.
The global liquefied natural gas (LNG) market experienced  steady growth as spot prices moderated from highs of  2022.
Worldwide LNG trade reached 404 Million Tonnes  in 2023, marking a 2.8% y-o-y expansion.
Asia, driven by  strong Chinese demand, retained its position as the main  destination for LNG shipments.
In 2023, the global gas supply remained stable, with  the increase in LNG production offsetting the decline in  Russian pipeline gas exports.
This expansion in supply was  particularly focused in certain regions, with the United States  emerging as the top LNG exporter globally with exports of  84.3 Million Tonnes, responsible for more than 80% of the  incremental LNG supply of 7.2 Million Tonnes in 2023.
Stagnant consumption and increasing natural gas stockpiles  led to reduced prices in 2023 compared to 2022.
Despite  being lower than the previous year, prices remained higher  than historical norms and exhibited significant fluctuations.
Natural Gas price in Europe averaged $13.1/mmbtu in  2023, a 68% decrease from $40.3/mmbtu in 2022.
The U.S.  benchmark Henry Hub natural gas price averaged $2.57 per  Million British thermal units (MMBtu) in 2023, about a 62%  drop from the 2022 average annual price ($6.4/mmbtu).
Price continued to show weakness during first quarter of  2024, with Natural gas Europe averaging $8.75/mmbtu,  whereas Henry Hub averaged $2.1/mmbtu.
2.3.
Low Carbon Energy  In 2023, global annual additions to renewable capacity  surged by nearly 50% to nearly 510 Gigawatts (GW), marking  the fastest growth rate in the past two decades.
Solar  photovoltaic (PV) installed capacity soared from 1177 GW  in 2022 to 1552 GW in 2023, while wind power capacity saw  an addition of 108 GW, reaching 1007 GW in 2023.
Much of  the capacity addition took place in China, while India, USA,  Brazil and EU also witnessed record increases.
Investment in the low-carbon energy transition globally  surged by 17% in 2023, surpassing $1.7 trillion.
For every  dollar spent on fossil fuels, $1.7 was invested in clean  energy in 2023, a significant increase from the 1:1 ratio five  years ago.
This momentum has been predominantly driven  by renewable power and electric vehicles (EVs), with notable  contributions from other sectors such as batteries, heat  pumps, and nuclear power.
3.
INDIAN ENERGY SECTOR  India, the world’s 3 rd largest energy consumer, recorded a  7.3% y-o-y increase in its energy demand, in 2023, much  above its ten years’ average of 4.2%.
India’s power demand rose by 7.6% in 2023-24, more  than double the 5-year pre-pandemic average (2015-16 to  2019-20) of 3.7%.
In addition to resilient economic activity,  sub-par and uneven monsoon and heatwaves also drove  up electricity demand.
In 2023-24, India’s installed power  generation capacity increased by 26 GW to 442 GW of  which 18.5 GW was of renewable energy (excluding large  hydropower), which was a new high for renewable energy  capacity addition in the country.
The Government of India  and State Governments have demonstrated strong support  for the renewable energy sector by establishing policies to  support growth and setting ambitious renewable energy  targets.
India’s National Electricity Plan (2022-2032) posits  Crude Oil Prices-Dated Brent(US$/Barrel) 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Source: Platts Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20 Mar-21 Jun-21 Sep-21 Dec-21 Mar-22 Jun-22 Sep-22 Dec-22 Mar-23 Jun-23 Sep-23 Dec-23 Mar-24 a notable trajectory in the share of renewables (excluding large hydropower) in installed capacity to increase from 32.5% at present  to 45.4% by 2026-27 and to 73.4% by 2031-32.
Demand for refined petroleum products grew by 4.6% in 2023-24 driven by solid growth in transport fuels (MS, HSD & ATF), cooking  fuel (LPG) and Bitumen.
Buoyancy in India’s automobile market, with 10% growth in new vehicle registrations underpinned the  growth in demand for road fuels.
Overall bullish momentum was seen in India’s transport sector, helping MS demand grow by 6.4%  to 37.2 MMT and HSD demand to grow by 4.4% to 89.6 MMT.
India’s aviation sector posted double-digit growth for  the third consecutive year with both air traffic and ATF  consumption surging past the pre-pandemic highs.
The  domestic air passenger traffic in India during 2023-24 stood  at 154 Million up from 137 Million in 2022-23, with a y-o-y  growth of 13%.
LPG demand reached record levels of 29.7  MMT in 2023-24 supported by GOI’s focus on clean cooking  through the Ujjwala scheme.
Natural Gas consumption in India after falling by 5.6% in  2022-23 (due to high LNG prices) posted a robust recovery in  2023-24 with over 10% growth.
In 2023-24, there was a surge  in domestic Natural Gas production with a 6.1% growth after  a slack growth of 1.6% in the previous year.
LNG imports  after falling by 15% in 2022-23 also posted a turnaround  with 21% growth as international spot prices softened.
In  addition to softening of international LNG prices, there was  also softening of prices of domestically produced gas due  to the change in domestic gas pricing formula based on  the recommendations of Kirit Parikh Committee on Natural  Gas Pricing.
India’s natural gas sector is witnessing massive  wave of investment in supply chain infrastructure with $67  Billion planned to be invested over the next 5-6 years as the  nation gears up to meet Government’s vision of increasing  the share of natural gas in India’s energy mix to 15%.
The Government has set the target of 20% ethanol blending  in petrol by Ethanol Supply Year (ESY) 2025-26.
Supported  by policy interventions in terms of widened feedstocks,  provision of concessional finance and infrastructure  development by industry, ethanol blending rose to 12.1%  (ESY 2022-23) up from mere 4% six years ago in 2017-18.
With the objective to draw global spotlight on biofuels as  a cost-effective and attainable energy transition strategy  especially for other developing countries, on the sidelines  of the G20 Leaders' Summit, India along with USA & Brazil  launched the Global Biofuels Alliance (GBA).
GBA is a multi- stake holder alliance consisting of 24 member countries  and 12 International Organisations and aims to promote  biofuel adoption.
To further solidify its focus on modern bioenergy, during  the year, Government announced mandatory blending  of Compressed Bio Gas (CBG) in Compressed Natural  Gas (CNG) for transport and Piped Natural Gas (PNG) for  domestic purposes from 2025-26 in a phased manner  reaching 5% from 2028-29 onwards.
The Government has  approved an indicative target of 1%, 2% and 5% for blending  of Sustainable Aviation Fuel in ATF by 2027, 2028 and 2030  respectively, for international flights.
Indian policy makers continue to fortify the flagship Green  Hydrogen Mission which targets 5 MMTPA production by  2030 and turning India into a green Hydrogen export hub.
In the interim budget for 2024-25, allocation for Green  Hydrogen Mission more than doubled to ₹ 600 Crore for  2024-25 as compared ₹  297 Crore allocated in the previous  year’s budget.
In addition, during the year, Government  of India released guidelines for green hydrogen use in  Major Petroleum Products Consumption (% Y-o-Y Growth) Total POL LPG SKO HSD MS Naphtha ATF Bitumen FO & LSHS Petcoke FY-(20-21) FY-(21-22) FY-(22-23 FY-(23-24) Source: Petroleum Planning & Analysis Cell, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas 3.8 -9.3 -25 -16.9 -67.2 -1.8 -12 -6.7 -6.1 -1.2 -8.2 -53.8 -11.3 -6.2 -28.1 -8.6 10.6 4.6 4.7 2.5 0.9 5.4 12.1 4.4 10.3 13.4 6.4 14 35.4 47.1 12 12 3.9 2.9 9.9 12.1 11.1 28.7 4.2 4 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 174 175  transport sector, shipping sector, and made allocation for  pilot projects in steel sector.
Electric mobility in the country is being promoted by a  framework of supportive policies.
These include financial  incentives offered by Central Government through Faster  Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME)  Scheme, Production Linked Incentive (PLI) for battery  manufacturing and auto Industry.
In addition, State  Governments also offer tax and other benefits in their  state-specific EV policies.
Besides, improving vehicle (and  battery) technology and larger number of OEMs entering the  segment with attractive products are also supporting electric  mobility in the country.
During the year, combined sales of  electric vehicles (cars, two-wheelers, three-wheelers, and  buses) increased to around 1.7 Million, posting over 40%  y-o-y growth.
Another trend worth noting in the Indian transport & energy  space is the pick-up in sales of high economy petrol-hybrid  cars boosted by rolling out of strong hybrid models by a few  of the major OEMs in India.
In 2023-24, sales of hybrid cars  doubled to over 90,000 up from 41,000 in 2022-23.
4.
INDIA’S RESILIENT ECONOMY:   A WIDE CANVAS  OF OPPORTUNITIES  It is widely recognised that this is India’s decade.
In fact,  India has continuously maintained its momentum as the  fastest growing economy.
On the back of its fast growth, in  the last eight years India has steadily moved up the ranks  from being the 10th biggest in 2014 to the 5th biggest in 2022.
Today, Indian economy is already US$ 3.6 trillion in size and  is projected to touch the $ 5 trillion milestone very soon.
In long term, India aims to grow 10 folds, reaching US$ 35  trillion and becoming the world's second-largest economy  by 2047.
The growth trajectory will entail a phenomenal  leap in India’s per capita income levels from the current  level of US$ 2600 to US$20,000 by 2047, placing India in the  ranks of developed economies or becoming ‘Viksit Bharat’.
This remarkable economic growth trajectory will drive India’s future energy demand, which is set to double over the long-term.
Consequently, India’s share in global energy pie, which is currently at 7%, is also expected to reach 13% by 2050.
India’s high  economic growth underpins growth in India’s energy demand alongside, India’s large and growing population (India overtook  China in 2023 as the most populous country in the world) and its low per capita energy consumption also define the scale and  significance of the expansion involved.
On per capita basis, today India's energy usage remains at just one-third of the world  average, highlighting the nation’s energy access deficit.
India’s journey of energy expansion is also defined by its commitments  to decarbonise itself.
India has committed to achieving Net-Zero emissions by 2070.
At the same time, to address India’s high  dependence on imported energy in an increasingly geopolitical unstable world, Energy Independence by mid-century has been  woven in as an important tenet of India’s energy expansion & transition journey.
India's Growing Share in Global Energy Pie India’s Long Term Energy Mix Share of Global Energy Demand (%) 2019  2050 India's share in Global  Energy demand to  double Emerging Economies excluding India & China China USA Developed Economies excluding US & EU EU India 32% 38% 23% 22% 15% 12% 12% 8% 10% 13% 7% 7% Long-Energy mix (for year 2047 in line with meeting 2070 Net-Zero Target 824 mtoe 84% share 1.6% 5.4% 0.8% 11.9% 3.5% 6.2% CAGR:  2.8 % Renewables to experience the fastest growth Fossil Fuels absolute demand to in increase over the long-term Source: NITI Aayog IESS 2047 V3.0, (compliant with Net-Zero 2070 Target) CAGR (2022-2047)   Net-Zero India: Primary Energy Demand by Fuel (mtoe) Oil Natural gas Coal Nuclear Hydro Renewables 2047 341 203 490 215 436 1718 mtoe 60% share 3313 2022 231 55 406 105  To sustain the growth momentum of the Indian economy  and actively pursue its goals of energy access, energy  independence, and decarbonisation, India is adopting a  balanced and holistic approach towards energy transition.
This approach creates growth opportunities across all  energy sectors.
While new and low-carbon energy sources  such as renewable energy, hydrogen, and biofuels are  expected to experience the fastest growth, the fundamental  need for stable and reliable energy ensures that fossil fuels  will also remain crucial and require scale-up.
India’s ambitions and potential for growth and development,  alongside its approach for just and orderly transition layout  a wide canvass of opportunities for an energy company  like IndianOil.
5.
INDIANOIL ’S BLUEPRINT FOR GROWTH  In India’s pursuit of achieving developed status, which  would inevitably lead to a doubling of primary energy  demand, IndianOil, the nation's foremost energy facilitator,  aims to elevate its contribution to the energy sector from  ~9% to ~12.5% by 2050.
Its objective is not only to uphold  its position as 'The Energy of India ' but also to actively  contribute to the realisation of India's vision of becoming a  "Viksit Bharat @2047".
With ‘Nation-First’ as a core value for the Company, its  strategic intent is to meet the growing energy needs of  the country in a secure and sustainable manner while  also creating value for the stakeholders.
The Company’s  growth blueprint consists of three pillars of “Building a  Stronger Core”, “Fostering Growth through Integration &  Diversification” and “Achieving Net-Zero”.
Building a Stronger Core  IndianOil as the flagship refiner in India’s growing market  is committed to ensure uninterrupted supplies of refined  products to every nook and corner of the country.
At present,  IndianOil is undertaking massive capacity augmentation in  its crude processing capacity.
By 2030, with the ongoing  expansions, IndianOil’s refining capacity is set to increase  by a third- taking it from 80.8 MMTPA at present to 107.4  MMTPA (including its subsidiary-CPCL).
IndianOil’s Present & Planned Capacities  The basis of this expansion drive is India’s strong  fundamentals and the need to ensure energy security.
On  the oil demand prospects front, there is a consensus that  India's oil demand will increase throughout this decade and  remain above current levels until at least 2040.
In India,  rising purchasing power and aspiration of consumers  and urbanisation will drive increase in vehicle ownership  rates, air travel penetration and plastics consumption  underpinning continued growth in oil demand, even with  growth in electrified transport system.
On the other hand,  the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, and the outbreak of  conflict in the Middle East have sharply refocused global  attention on energy security.
IndianOil is therefore focussed  on meeting India’s growing demand in a self-reliant manner  by creating adequate refining capacity.
IndianOil’s refinery  expansions are coming at an opportune juncture, amidst  the ongoing consolidation in the global refining sector.
Since  2020, there have been refinery closures in the developed  countries to the tune of 4.8 mbpd refining capacity.
On the  other hand, world’s large appetite for refined products and  increasing challenges in sourcing them have kept product  cracks and refinery margins buoyant.
This could create an  opportunity for products export in the future after meeting  buoyant domestic demand.
20232023 20302030 80.8 107.4 19750 30000 IndianOil’s Blueprint for Growth Building a Stronger Core Fostering Growth through  Integration & Diversification Achieving Net-Zero Energy Security Sustainability Pipelines Length (Km)Refining capacity (MMTPA) Refinery Expansion Projects under implementation  Digboi Refinery expansion from 0.65 to 1.0 MMTPA  Barauni Refinery expansion from 6 to 9 MMTPA  Capacity augmentation of Koyali refinery from 13.7  MMTPA to 18 MMTPA   Capacity augmentation of Panipat refinery from 15  MMTPA to 25 MMTPA  New 9 MMTPA grassroot refinery at Nagapattinam by  a joint venture of IndianOil & CPCL Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 176 177   Simultaneous to refinery expansions, IndianOil is expanding  its pipeline transportation infrastructure to improve the  availability of products across the country.
The Company  aims to develop a robust pipeline network spanning over  30,000 kilometers by 2030, up from its current length of  approximately 19,750 kilometers.
IndianOil is also expanding its marketing infrastructure  consisting of storage facilities and last mile connectivity,  at a fast clip.
In the last 5 years, the Company has added  around 10,000 retail outlets of which over 4000 are rural  retail outlets, over 1 MMTPA of LPG Bottling capacity and  over 900 LPG dealerships.
At present, the Company is  implementing marketing infrastructure projects costing over  ₹  11,000 Crore for capacity augmentation and construction  of new terminals, depots, bottling plants, retail outlets (ROs)  and modernisation of existing ROs.
These expansions  are designed to complement the Company’s increased  refinery capacity and for ensuring a consistent supply of  petroleum products.
The Company is leveraging its research capabilities to  enhance Atmanirbharta by producing new product lines.
In  2022-23, the Company started producing AVGAS 100 LL,  a specialised aviation fuel for two-stroke piston engines  used by pilot training schools and military establishments,  which was erstwhile available only through imports.
Today,  the Company is exporting AVGAS 100 LL to countries like  Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka, positioning  India as an exporter of this niche fuel rather than an  importer.
During the year, the Company strengthened its  global market presence further by introducing Reference  Gasoline (E-10 & E-20) and Diesel Fuels (B-7), making it one  of only three companies worldwide producing this reference  fuel and launching FIM (Fédération Internationale de  Motocyclisme) Compliant Cat 2 Fuel “STORM” for the Asian  Road Racing Championship.
Further, in the field of catalysts  which are essential to chemical processes in the refineries  and are invariably imported and expensive, the Company  has been focussing in developing in house capabilities.
During the year, in a significant milestone, IndianOil’s first  Catalyst Manufacturing Plant (CMU) was commissioned at  Panipat Refinery.
households receive Indane cylinders every day.
flights are fuelled every day.
tank trucks travel almost 15 Lakh Km to deliver  products vehicles for bulk & packed LPG ply almost   25 Lakh Km to fuel the kitchens.
26 Lakh+  2300+  16,000 +  24,600   Another strand of strengthening the core business is  making our intricate and complex supply chain robust and  efficient by leveraging the power of digitalisation.
During  the year, the Company launched its Integrated Planning  Tool (IPT).
This tool optimises IndianOil’s extensive supply  chain by integrating operations planning across refineries,  petrochemical complexes, and distribution networks.
IPT is equipped with AI/ML capabilities, offers end-to-end  optimisation, making it one of the most sophisticated  supply chain solution models in the downstream  hydrocarbon industry.
Customer centricity involving provision of high-quality  products and services has been the hallmark of IndianOil’s  operations.
The ongoing transition in the energy space and  changing consumer preferences have emboldened the  Company to offer   value added products.
In the recent years,  supported by the efforts of its R&D Centre, the Company has  launched eco-friendly fuels.
These include XtraGreen Diesel  (offers 5-7% fuel economy benefits and ranks among the  cleanest diesel fuels globally), XP95, India’s first 95 Octane  petrol developed by IndianOil (provides an additional 3.95%  fuel economy) and XtraTej LPG for commercial cooking  (delivers up to 7.5% savings in LPG consumption and  reduces cooking time).
In addition, R&D on lube technology  front has led to development of lubricant products like  SERVO Greenmile, SERVO Raftar, and SERVO 4T Green  contribute to higher vehicle fuel economy.
These branded  fuels have garnered a strong and loyal customer base, with  XP95, XG, and XP100 available at over 11,000, 6,900, and  170 retail outlets (as on 31.03.2024), respectively, and their  popularity continues to grow.
The Company has been constantly evolving its offerings in terms of products, services and experience to serve its customers  better.
To make LPG more accessible to migrant labourers, daily wager and hawkers the Company has already rolled out Munna  (2 Kg) and Chhotu (5 Kg) Free Trade LPG cylinders equipped with cooktops.
Further, in view of changing mobility preference  of customers, the Company is transforming its retail outlets into Energy Stations.
These Energy Stations are envisioned as  comprehensive energy solutions along national highways and green expressways, offering a range of fuel options including  conventional transport fuel, LNG, CNG, and charging stations for EVs.
The Company’s CRM solutions have been embedded across  its petroleum and petrochemicals marketing segments and it already has a customer centric Digital Platform ‘ePIC’ (electronic  Platform for IndianOil Customers) which provides unified customer experience for all its line of business.
Fostering Growth through Diversification & Integration:  To become an integrated and resilient company of the  future, the Company entered Exploration & Production  and Petrochemicals business over two decades ago.
The  journey continued with sizeable investments in the supply  chain of the cleanest hydrocarbon i.e., natural gas.
Today,  the Company has created significant portfolios in each of  these and opportunities ahead in terms of growth prospects  and policy support.
The importance of these business lines  to overall vitality of the Company are driving future growth  in these areas.
In the upstream space, the Company has a carefully curated  portfolio of assets including oil, gas and CBM spread across  India and abroad.
Currently, the Company holds a portfolio  of 29 upstream assets, including eight producing assets.
The Company is operating one overseas and one domestic  block.
The current annual hydrocarbon production stands  at 4.25 Million metric tons of oil equivalent (MMTOE) and  the Company is working steadfastly to increase this to 11  MMTOES by 2030.
In this pursuit, the Company is actively  exploring opportunities both in India and abroad, leveraging  various licensing policies and farm-in opportunities.
In the Petrochemical space, the Company has established  a significant presence in the Indian petrochemical sector,  with a production capacity of 4.277 Million metric tons per  annum, representing 6.1% of the Petrochemical Intensity  Index (PII).
The Company is on a major petrochemicals  expansion drive as it strives to take up a bigger share in  India’s growing petrochemicals market.
Projected to expand  at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8-10% over  the long term, the Indian Petrochemical Industry is poised  Powered by IndianOil's  R&D:Focus on new and  niche product lines –  Towards ATMANIRBHARTA  & SUSTAINABILITY Specialised aviation  fuel  AVGAS 100LL Reference Gasoline (E-10 &  E-20) and Diesel Fuels (B-7) FIM Compliant  Cat 2 Fuel “STORM” Branded Fuels -  XtraGreen diesel, XP95,  XP100, XtraTej LPG World class Lubricants -  SERVO Greenmile, SERVO  Raftar, and SERVO 4T  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 178 179  for substantial growth, driven by India’s sturdy macro  fundamentals, population expansion and presently low  per capital polymer consumption.
These factors serve  as significant catalysts in positioning India as a key  petrochemical manufacturing hub.
The Company aims to enhance its Petrochemical Intensity  Index (PII) to 15% by 2030 with petrochemicals expansions  integral to all refinery expansions.
The Company’s  petrochemicals strategy, which is primarily based on  utilisation of captive feedstock  aims to capitalise on  both volume and value growth prospects by expanding  sourcing options, while concurrently optimising refinery  utilisation during periods of decreased fuel demand.
Notably, the Company plans to invest over ₹ 61,000 Crore  for the construction of a petrochemical complex in Paradip,  Odisha, to bolster India's self-reliance in this sector.
Alongside, the Company’s R&D is persistently working in  making refinery operations agile by working on technologies  that enable diversion of road transport fuel streams to  petrochemicals production including niche grades such  as specialty chemicals, industrial/intermediate chemicals,  and bio-polymers.
Another key focus area for the Company is recyclates, having  introduced CYCLOPLAST, its brand of polymer recyclates.
While petrochemicals help lock in carbon, promoting  carbon-neutral hydrocarbon usage, the increasing pollution  from plastics is an undeniable issue.
Therefore, alongside  its growing presence in petrochemicals, the Company is  upholding its legacy as a responsible supplier by addressing  plastic pollution.
The Company is championing circularity  through its entry into recyclates.
IndianOil also undertook  the Unbottled initiative – a brand of sustainable garments  launched for merchandise made from recycled polyester.
The ‘Unbottled’ campaign aims to convert 100 Million PET  bottles annually into uniforms for our on-ground teams and  other stakeholders.
The Company is a major player in India’s Natural Gas market,  with its presence deeply entrenched across the natural gas  value chain and commanding a share of 13% in India’s  natural gas market.
Government of India aims to increase  share of natural gas in its energy mix from around 6% at  present, (which is way below the world average of 22%) to  15% and towards this, massive investments in building gas  storage, supply and distribution infrastructure are underway.
The Company's strategic vision includes ambitious plans  to expand its sales portfolio by three to four times by the  end of the decade by continued investments in natural gas  infrastructure ranging from RLNG terminals, cross country  pipelines, to City Gas Distribution (CGD) networks and  LNG stations.
The Company is expanding its natural gas  pipeline network to ~3,700 Kms by adding ~2,400 Kms to  its current length of 1,300 Kms.
It is also planning to expand  the capacity of Ennore LNG Terminal from 5 MMTPA to 10  MMTPA to meet the growing demand for liquefied natural  gas (LNG).
Simultaneously, the Company is developing CGD  network in 49 GAs across the country, awarded through  PNGRB’s bidding rounds.
An integral part of the Company’s  natural gas growth plan is to align it with the Company’s  target to achieve Net-Zero emissions by 2046, driven by  the accelerated adoption of natural gas as a low-carbon  transitional fuel in its refineries.
In addition to supplying natural gas to traditional sectors like  refineries, fertilisers, CGD, etc., IndianOil is also working with  Industry partners & Regulatory bodies under the guidance  of MoPNG & PNGRB, towards creating ecosystem for LNG  as transport fuel.
Natural Gas, having 20-22% less carbon  dioxide emissions and negligible SOx & PM emissions  compared to Diesel, has the potential to be a successful  solution to the current predicament of emissions from  hard to abate sector of road freight.
Recognising LNG's  potential as a vehicle fuel, the Company is establishing 16  LNG stations along major highways, including the golden  quadrilateral and national highways.
Since June 2023, the  Company has been selling LNG from its first retail outlet  in Sriperumbudur.
However, navigating this new sector  presents challenges, necessitating support for vehicle and  LNG supply ecosystem development.
The Company has a well-balanced sourcing strategy  consisting a mix of long-term contract and spot purchase to  ensure affordable supplies and mitigate price fluctuations.
In this context, the Company has secured deals with ADNOC  (HOA signed) and TotalEnergies (SPA signed) for long term  supplies beginning from 2026.
The Company has legacy portfolios in cryogenics and  explosives, which are being nurtured carefully to take  advantage of the emerging growth opportunities.
The  Company ranks among the leading manufacturers of  cryogenic containers nationwide.
Anticipated expansion in  LNG across industries and as transport fuel is expected to  provide significant opportunities for increased utilisation of  cryogenic equipment.
Further, cryogenics are also essential  The Company’s strategic vision includes  ambitious plans to expand its Natural  Gas sales by 3-4 times by the end of  the decade with a focus on City Gas  Distribution network, small-scale  LNG units, LNG bunkering, and LNG  transportation by road.
in facilitating various applications of hydrogen, given that  storing liquefied hydrogen requires storage at extremely low  temperature.
Energy transition is expected to unfold new  areas for usage of cryogenic vessels and cylinders and the  Company is gearing up to tap these opportunities.
The Company holds leadership position in India’s bulk  explosives sector and is a major supplier to India’s coal  mining sector.
With coal demand and production set to  increase in the times to come in line with India’s holistic  energy growth strategy, opportunities abound for growth  for Company’s bulk explosives business.
The Company  is implementing both brownfield and greenfield capacity  expansions and pursuing strategic partnerships with  national and international collaborators as part of its  long-term strategy of being a leading dependable supplier  in the industry.
A key aspect of the Company’s strategy is to tap overseas  growth opportunities in the neighbourhood and beyond.
The  Company has well established downstream oil subsidiaries  in Sri Lanka, Mauritius and UAE and joint venture companies  in Bangladesh and Nepal.
The Company continued export  of products including Gasoil, Jet A1, Gasoline, AVGAS and  Sulphur primarily to Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Indonesia.
The Company is the sole supplier of all major petroleum  products to Nepal since 1975, governed by a General Supply  Agreement renewed every five years, the latest one being  valid until March 2027.
The Company is currently exploring  opportunities in the natural gas sector in Bangladesh  through its joint venture and also exploring downstream fuel  retailing opportunities in Saudi Arabia.
Achieving Net-Zero  The Company has committed to becoming Net-Zero by  2046 in terms of operational (Scope 1 & 2) emissions.
Investment of over ₹ 2.5 Lakh Crore by 2046 is envisaged  to meet this target.
IndianOil’s refineries will be the focus  area for which a comprehensive plan focused on mitigation  and offsets has been chalked out.
Main pillars of mitigation  efforts are energy efficiency (enhancing furnace and boiler  efficiencies), switching from liquid fuels to natural gas,  renewable energy, CBG, and green hydrogen.
Refineries worldwide are among the largest stationary  sources of emissions, making the decarbonisation of  their operational emissions a critical priority.
Beyond  this obligation, Net-Zero transition presents significant  opportunities in areas of green hydrogen, renewable  energy, modern biofuels, and electric mobility, amongst  others.
IndianOil aims to establish leadership positions  in key energy transition technologies like green hydrogen  and modern biofuels in the long term and contribute to the  national Net-Zero 2070 target.
Green hydrogen is seen as a vital component of global  Net-Zero future and is also seen as a critical element of  for strengthening national energy security.
The Indian  Government has been very actively putting in place policy  and incentive structure for green hydrogen production in  India.
There are natural synergies for refiners to get into green  hydrogen production.
Current global hydrogen production is  around 100 Million Tonnes annually and is concentrated in  refining and industrial applications.
For refineries, hydrogen  production is an essential requirement for desulphurisation  and other processes and a major source of carbon  emissions.
IndianOil as the largest refiner in the country is  today also the biggest producer and consumer of hydrogen  in India.
In the context of the Company’s Net-Zero target,  it plans to convert fully to green hydrogen over the long  term away from fossil fuel-based hydrogen.
To start with,  IndianOil plans to set up a 10 KTA green hydrogen plant  at Panipat.
Subsequently by 2030, the Company plans to  create 350 KTA of Green Hydrogen capacity, which would be  50% of its total hydrogen generation capacity.
The Company  is focused on various aspects of the green hydrogen supply  chain and is forging alliances, collaborating, and investing in  R&D in this pursuit.
The Company along with L&T and ReNew  has incorporated a joint venture company GH4India Pvt.
Ltd., to focus on green hydrogen projects and its derivatives.
In addition, the Company’s R&D is working on various  innovative hydrogen production technologies such as Oxy- steam biomass gasification-based hydrogen generation,  solar powered electrolyser-based hydrogen generation.
The  Company is also working on conversion of existing natural  gas pipelines for transportation of hydrogen blended natural  gas.
The Company demonstrated its leadership aspiration  in green hydrogen space, by launching India’s first Green  Hydrogen fuel cell bus during the year and is currently  operating 15 fuel cell buses in the Delhi-NCR region.
India is one of the fastest growing markets for renewable   energy and shifting to RE based electricity generation  is a crucial tenet of India’s decarbonisation efforts.
The  Company plans to build a renewable energy portfolio of 31  GW by 2030 by developing large scale renewable energy  capacities for serving its captive power demand and with  focus on market demand opportunities.
During the year, the  Company formed a Joint venture Company NTPC Green  Energy Private Ltd. to develop grid and/ or off-grid renewable  energy-based power projects.
Biofuels are crucial low carbon sources of energy which  fulfill dual objectives of energy security and sustainable  development.
In India the biofuel sector is amidst a  revolution, revitalised by Government of India through a  series of strategic interventions.
Biofuels production and use  is in India guided by the National Policy on Biofuels (2018)  amended in 2022.
The mandate is of 20% ethanol blending  by 2025-26 and 5% biodiesel blending by 2030.
IndianOil  is fully committed to India’s biofuel vision and sees this as  an area of immense opportunity.
The Company has been  proactively addressing supply chain and feedstock issues  by adopting a multimodal transportation (rail and pipeline  in addition to the conventional road transport) model for  ethanol, lining up adequate ethanol manufacturing capacity  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 180 181  and by providing additional incentives to distilleries over  and above Government incentives.
The Company is in full  readiness to meet the Government of India’s mandate for  increasing ethanol blending in petrol to 20% by 2025-26.
The Company is also investing in advanced biofuels and  has set 2G & 3G ethanol projects based on paddy straw  and refinery off gases, respectively.
Bio-based Sustainable  Aviation Fuel (SAF) is seen as the most promising solution  to decarbonise the aviation sector.
The Government of India  intends to achieve 5% SAF blending for international flights  by 2030.
IndianOil is leading from the front in development  of SAF production in India.
The Company is collaborating  with global technology leaders like LanzaJet, and Praj for  setting up SAF plants in India.
Another significant bioenergy source that the Company is  focusing on is Compressed Bio Gas (CBG).
Government of  India is promoting CBG through its ‘Sustainable Alternative  Towards Affordable Transportation’ (SATAT) scheme to  encourage entrepreneurs to set up CBG plants, produce &  supply CBG to Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) for sale  as automotive & industrial fuels.
The government has  also mandated 5% CBG blending in CNG/PNG under CBG  Blending Obligation (CBO) from 2028-29 onwards.
IndianOil  is the lead implementation agency for SATAT under which  Letters of Intent (LoIs) are issued to entrepreneurs for setting  up plants for supply of CBG to Company’s retail outlets and  direct customers.
In addition, the company is also setting up  30 CBG plants through its Joint Venture Companies.
Given  the green credentials of CBG, IndianOil is also exploring CBG  based hydrogen production as part of its Net-Zero Plans.
The imperatives of Net-Zero transition are transforming  the global mobility landscape with focus on low carbon  transportation.
Availability of adequate charging  infrastructure is a pre-requisite for growth in the EV  penetration.
The Company has established over 9000 EV  charging stations and 91 battery swapping stations to  bolster the development of electrified transport systems  nationwide.
The Company sees immense potential in the  battery swapping model in view of India’s large and growing  electric two-wheeler and three-wheeler base.
The Company  is joining hands with Sun Mobility, which is a global leader  in providing energy infrastructure and services, to form a  joint venture company for battery swapping.
The Company  has also ventured into the battery manufacturing sector  to tap opportunities presented by this growing sector and  to contribute towards ‘Atmanirbharta’.
The Company has  a joint venture, ‘IOC Phinergy Private Limited’ (IOP) for  Aluminium-Air Batteries and is working towards formation  of a joint venture with Panasonic for manufacturing of  cylindrical lithium-ion cells in India.
The Company recently took a significant step towards  accomplishment of its vision to build a strong green energy  portfolio, with the formation of  a Wholly Owned Subsidiary  Company- Terra Clean Ltd.,  to undertake Low Carbon, New,  Clean and Green Energy businesses.
Terra Clean Ltd. would  invest in cutting-edge technologies to create a more efficient,  sustainable, and low-carbon energy ecosystem in India.
Its focus is on renewable energy sources, such as solar,  wind, hydro, electric vehicle, green hydrogen and bioenergy,  which will help India achieve its Net-Zero targets while also  meeting the growing energy demands of the country.
IndianOil’s R&D Centre has been the hub of innovation for  more than five decades not only in core areas of Lubricant,  Refining, Petrochemicals and Pipeline technology but  also in areas of bioenergy, solar energy, hydrogen, and  nanotechnology.
In line with the imperatives of Net-Zero  transition, the Company’s R&D is gearing up to take a massive  leap.
The Company is setting up a new R&D campus, with  an estimated budget of over H 3000 Crore with focus on  four new Centres of Excellence: Alternative & Renewable  Energy, Corrosion Research, Nanotechnology, and Synthetic  Biology.
The state-of-the-art new R&D centre will enhance  the Company’s efforts in new product development,  creating efficient and cost-effective technologies to proving  Competitive edge and pave growth path for the future.
6.
RISKS AND CONCERNS  Organisations worldwide are grappling with an increasingly  complex risk environment, exacerbated by a series  of disruptions starting with the onset of the Covid-19  pandemic.
The Russia-Ukraine conflict continues and  has been followed by increased geopolitical tensions in  the Middle East and disruption of key shipping routes.
Concurrently, rising global temperatures and the imperative  of achieving Net-Zero emissions have further intensified the  intricacies of the landscape.
The geopolitical landscape has once again underscored  the significance of energy security.
As the leading energy  provider for the nation, IndianOil recognises its obligation  to safeguard energy security.
To this end, the company is  dedicated to augmenting its refineries’ capacity to process  a broader spectrum of opportunity crudes and strategically  broadening its sources of supply.
During 2023-24, IndianOil  took significant steps by adding 6 new grades into its crude  basket, which now encompasses 253 grades sourced  from diverse regions such as Africa, the Middle East, the  Americas, and Russia, among others.
The Company remains steadfast in its commitment to  navigating the expanding risk matrix with heightened  resilience and proactive measures.
Identified major  risks across various business segments and functions  are methodically tackled through continuous mitigation  strategies.
Risk assessment and management are  conducted at multiple levels, employing both top-down  and bottoms-up approaches.
This comprehensive strategy  encompasses the enterprise as a whole, the business units,  the functions, the market share and projects, ensuring a  thorough and proactive approach to risk management.
The risks identified by the Company inter-alia include:  	 Economic risks arising from international crude oil and  products market fluctuations;  	 Financial risks such as foreign exchange rate  fluctuations, exposure to borrowings;  	 Competition risks arising from competitors within the  existing businesses and from new businesses such as  alternative energy sources, electric mobility;  	 Operational risks such as pilferages, labour unrest,  unplanned shutdown of refineries;  	 Security and fraud risks, including cyber-security, data  leakage and physical security risks;  	 Reputational risks such as brand value risk;  	 Environmental risk arising from the impact on the  environment from our business activities and increase  in compliance cost in view of the emerging regulations;  	 Compliance risks arising from tax disputes and  litigation; and  	 The risk of change in Government policies impacting  profitability and ability to do business  	 The energy transition offers opportunities but also  comes with inherent risks, notably the potential for  a disorderly transition.
Such disorderliness can lead  to insufficient future supplies, causing extreme price  fluctuations and supply disruptions.
Moreover, with increasing scrutiny on Environmental, Social,  and Governance (ESG) factors, both globally and within  India, the Company has expanded its risk assessment  to encompass environmental impacts.
This includes  evaluating the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions impact  (SCOPE 1 & 2) as well as assessing the water footprint  associated with its operations.
By incorporating these  additional dimensions into its risk analysis, the Company  demonstrates its commitment to addressing broader ESG  concerns and promoting sustainable practices.
7.
FINANCIAL REVIEW  During 2023-24, the Company recorded the highest ever Net Profit of H39,619 Crore, since its inception.
The Company  set new  records with the best-ever physical performances in annual crude throughput, pipeline throughput and in annual sales volume.
The Company also achieved all time high petrochemicals sales volume during the year.
The capital expenditure of H42,236 Crore  (including investments in joint ventures & subsidiaries) during the year is the highest-ever incurred by the Company, which reflects  its commitment to the development and expansion of energy infrastructure in the country.
The Standalone Financial Performance of the Company and the various Segments is summarised below: (H in Crore) Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 Variation Revenue from Operations 8,66,345 9,34,953 -68,608 Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation & Amortisation (EBITDA) 74,182 28,488 45,694 Profit before Taxes 52,344 9,698 42,646 Profit after Taxes 39,619 8,242 31,377 Borrowings 1,16,496 1,32,495 -15,999 Revenue from Operations (Segment Wise)      Petroleum 8,03,127 8,79,223 -76,096  Petrochemicals 26,187 22,259 3,928  Other Businesses* 37,031 33,471 3,560 Earnings before Interest & Tax (EBIT) (Segment Wise)      Petroleum 55,177 12,276 42,901  Petrochemicals -344 -181 -163  Other Businesses* 789 1,729 -940  Other un-allocable (expenditure)/income-net 4,050 2,806 1,244 *Other Businesses comprise of Gas, Oil and Gas Exploration Activities, Explosives & Cryogenic Business and Wind Mill & Solar Power Generation.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 182 183   Standalone Financial Performance   In 2023-24, the Revenue from Operations was H8,66,345  Crore as compared to H9,34,953 Crore in the previous  Financial Year.
The decrease in revenue can be primarily  attributed to decrease in product prices in international  market.
The Asset Turnover Ratio has declined from 2.33  times to 1.99 times as Revenue from Operations has  decreased during the year.
The Net Profit for 2023-24 was H39,619 Crore as compared  to H8,242 Crore during previous year.
The increase in EBITDA,  Operating Profit and Net Profit Margin is mainly on account  of normalised marketing margin and lower exchange losses  during the year as compared to previous year.
In 2023-24, the company's EBITDA margin was at 8.56%,  the Operating Profit margin was at 6.34%, and the Net  Profit margin was at 4.57%.
These ratios depict significant  increase as compared to the previous year when the EBITDA  margin was 3.05%, the Operating Profit margin was 1.11%,  and the Net Profit margin was 0.88%.
Due to increase in  profitability and decrease in borrowings as compared to  previous year, the Company's Return On Average Capital  Employed registered an increase from 6.19% to 20.17%.
At the beginning of the year, crude prices were around $84  per barrel.
It increased to $97 per barrel in September 2023,  before settling at around $86 per barrel by year-end.
The  average HSD crack spread decreased significantly from  $35/bbl in previous year to $19/bbl during the year with high  volatility and even touched a low of $5/bbl at the end of April  2023.
The average MS crack spread which was about $8/ bbl in the previous year remained broadly at the same level  of $7/bbl during the year.
The quarter wise movement in refining margins (in $/bbl) is shown in the chart below: Q4 (FY 2022-23) Q1 (FY 2023-24) Q2 (FY 2023-24) Q3 (FY 2023-24) Q4 (FY 2023-24) IOCL IOCL (Normalised) Singapore 25 20 15 10 0 5  The Singapore benchmark for the Refining Margin  decreased during the year on account of the lower spread  between international prices of petroleum products and  crude.
As can be seen from above chart, the Company’s  normalised refining margin (i.e.
normalised GRM) during  the year has moved in tandem with the international  margins.
Normalised GRM of the Company decreased  from US$ 20.14/bbl in 2022-23 to US$ 11.44/bbl in 2023- 24 compared to the decrease in the Singapore GRM from  US$ 10.77/bbl to US$ 6.61/bbl.
The inventory holding by  the Company was high on account of inland refineries, due  to which inventory gain/loss becomes significant during a  fluctuating price scenario and hence, greater volatility was  seen in reported margins.
The Current Ratio of the Company broadly remained at the  same level as in the previous year, indicating a consistent  balance between current assets and liabilities.
Decrease  in borrowings led to the decrease in the Company's Debt- to-Equity ratio from 0.98 times to 0.66 times.
On account  of improved profit during the year, there is significant  improvement of Interest Coverage Ratio from 3.39 times  to 9.08 times.
The Debt Service Coverage ratio also  experienced an increase from 1.30 times to 2.17 times.
The  inventory-holding period was about 48 days and Company’s  average collection period was 6 days.
The Company paid a final dividend of H4,132 Crore for the  Financial Year 2022-23 and an interim dividend of H6,886  Crore for Financial Year 2023-24 during the year.
The  Company's Earnings Per Share (EPS) for the year 2023- 24 stood at H28.77 as compared to H5.98 in previous year.
The Board of Directors has recommended a final dividend  of H7.00 per equity share for 2023-24, subject to approval  by the members of the Company in the Annual General  Meeting (AGM), in addition to the interim dividend of H5.00  per equity share paid during the year.
Detailed financial  indicators and ratios for the last five years are provided in  the section ‘Performance at a Glance’ forming part of the  Integrated Annual Report.
Group Financial Performance   The Group's Revenue from Operations for the year  amounted to H8,81,235 Crore as compared to H9,51,410  Crore in the previous year.
The Net Profit of the group for  the year increased to H43,161 Crore from H11,704 Crore in  previous year due to the same factors which contributed to  increased profitability on standalone basis.
The information  on contribution by each of the group company is provided in  Note 46 of Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial detailed performance of our material  subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates is provided in  Note 33A and 33B of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
During the year, our subsidiary Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited reported Net Profit of H2,745 Crore  and Total Comprehensive Income of H2,748 Crore.
Lanka  IOC PLC (a subsidiary in Sri Lanka) reported Net Profit of  Sri Lankan Rupees 1,394 Crore and a Total Comprehensive  Income of Sri Lankan Rupees 1,437 Crore, which, after  adjustments as per Ind AS, translated to Net Profit of H445  Crore and Total Comprehensive Income of H555 Crore In  the category of Joint Ventures, Indian Synthetic Rubber  Private Limited achieved Net Profit of H 198 Crore and  Total Comprehensive Income of H199 Crore and Indian Oil  Petronas Private Limited achieved Net Profit of H326 Crore  and Total Comprehensive Income of H326 Crore.
Further,  Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited recorded Net Profit  of H1,324 Crore and Total Comprehensive Income of H1,325  Crore and the associate, Petronet LNG Limited achieved  Net Profit of H3,652 Crore and Total Comprehensive Income  of H3,646 Crore.
8.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS – PROCESS  EXCELLENCE   The Company has an established Internal Control Systems  which inter-alia include various policies as well as detailed  manuals, which cover almost all the aspects of the business.
The internal processes and policies are reviewed from time to  time to align them with the changing business requirements.
Organisation-level controls, Operational-level controls, anti- fraud controls and general IT controls have been put in  place to ensure that business operations are carried out  efficiently and effectively and chances of errors/frauds are  minimised.
The internal control systems are commensurate  with the size and operations of the Company.
The Company  has an independent Internal Audit Department, headed by  an Executive Director, who reports to the Chairman.
The  Department has officers from Finance as well as other  various technical functions.
The audit assignments are  carried out as per the Annual Audit Programme approved by  the Chairman and the Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit  carries out extensive audits throughout the year covering  every business process.
The Statutory Auditors are also  required to issue the Independent Auditor’s Report on the  Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting for the  Company under Clause (i) of Sub-Section 3 of Section 143  of the Companies Act, 2013.
The report issued thereupon  is attached to the Standalone and Consolidated Financial  Statements respectively.
The Audit Committee carries out a  detailed review of the Financial Statements and deliberations  with the Internal Auditors and Statutory Auditors before the  same is recommended to the Board for approval.
9.
HUMAN RESOURCES  The Company always believes in holistic and meaningful  employee engagements and the development of its human  resources.
The Company engages with the employees to  tap their potential for the growth of its business.
It assigns  great importance to develop its human resources with  a focus on its Core Values, which has been revitalised by  adding a fifth value of “Nation-First” to the existing values  of Care, Innovation, Passion and Trust.
The HR systems and  practices of the Company focus on diversity and inclusion in  all initiatives to build a cohesive workforce.
The challenges  surrounding the present competitive and dynamic business  scenario can be best mitigated by a workforce which is  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 184 185  motivated, adaptive to change, innovative and quick in  learning.
Learning forms an integral part of the growth  and enrichment of the workforce.
Integrated HR practices  through focused recruitment, career path and learning and  development have contributed to the future readiness of  the workforce.
The Company has a structured and robust  succession planning framework for the identification and  development of talent for the leadership pipeline.
The  Company has not only groomed several visionary leaders  who led and transformed the Company over the years  but also groomed leaders for both the public and the  private sectors.
10.
IR CLIMATE – COLLABORATIVE VALUE  The industrial relations (IR) climate in the Company has  traditionally been harmonious.
A collaborative IR climate  has been maintained in the Company over the years.
The Company ensures that the changes in its business  environment, strategy & business models, the resultant  impact on the current business and the people, along with  future plans are regularly shared with the collectives and  their views and suggestions are taken into consideration.
Regular structured meetings are held between the  management and the collectives to discuss and deliberate  on issues like productivity, welfare and the need to build a  responsive and responsible organisation.
The collectives  have always steadfastly supported the management in  overcoming challenges faced by the Company.
As of March 31, 2024, the employee strength of the Company  was at 30,321, which comprised 18,570 executives and  11,751 nonexecutives, including 2,726 women employees.
11.
OTHER INFORMATION  The details regarding the Company’s CSR activities,  environment protection and conservation initiatives,  technology absorption and adoption efforts, renewable  energy initiatives, foreign exchange earnings & outgo,  energy conservation, etc.
are provided in the Directors’  Report and its Annexure.
12.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT  The information and statements in the Management’s  Discussion & Analysis regarding the objectives, expectations  or anticipations may be forward-looking within the meaning  of applicable securities, laws and regulations.
The actual  results may differ materially from the expectations.
The  various critical factors that could influence the operations  of the Company include global and domestic demand and  supply conditions affecting the selling price of products,  input availability and prices, changes in Government of India  regulations/tax laws, economic developments within the  country and factors such as litigation and industrial relations.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 186 KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants 12-B Baldota Bhavan, 117, Maharshi Karve Road Mumbai – 400020 K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants 3/15, Asaf Ali Road, 4th Floor Near Delite Cinema, New Delhi - 110002 S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants A 3/7, Gillander House 8, N.S.
Road, Kolkata - 700001 KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants 7/1A, Grant Lane, Room#218, 2nd Floor, Near Lal Bazar Kolkata - 700012 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT To   The Members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (the “Company”), which  comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the  Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended on that date and notes to the financial statements,  including a summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the “Standalone  Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial  statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view  in conformity with Indian Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting  Standards) Rules 2015, as amended and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company  as at March 31, 2024, and total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other comprehensive income), changes in equity and  its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under  section 143(10) of the Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the  Audit of the standalone financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of  Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”), together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our  audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other  ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence we have  obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial  statements of the current period.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a  whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have determined the matters  described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report: Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets There are areas where management judgement impacts  the carrying value of property, plant and equipment,  intangible assets, and their respective depreciation/ amortisation rates.
These include the decision to  capitalise or expense costs; the annual asset life review;  the timeliness of the capitalisation of assets and the  use of management assumptions and estimates for the  determination or the measurement and recognition criteria  for assets retired from active use.
Due to the materiality in  the context of the Balance Sheet of the Company and the  level of judgement and estimates required, we consider  this to be as area of significance.
We assessed the controls in place over the fixed asset cycle, evaluated the  appropriateness of capitalisation process, performed tests of details on  costs capitalised, the timeliness of the capitalisation of the assets and the  de-recognition criteria for assets retired from active use.
In performing these procedures, we reviewed the judgements made  by management including the nature of underlying costs capitalised;  determination of realizable value of the assets retired from active use; the  appropriateness of assets lives applied in the calculation of depreciation/ amortisation; the useful lives of assets prescribed in Schedule II to the  Act and the useful lives of certain assets as per the technical assessment  of the management.
We observed that the management has regularly  reviewed the aforesaid judgements and there are no material changes.
Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters Provision for Direct Taxes The Company has uncertain direct tax positions including  matters under dispute which involves significant judgment  relating to the possible outcome of these disputes in  estimation of the provision for income tax.
Because of  the judgement required, this area is considered as a key   audit matter.
Our audit procedures involved assessment of the management’s underlying  assumptions in estimating the tax provision and the possible outcome  of the disputes taking into account the legal precedence, jurisprudence  and other rulings in evaluating management’s position on these uncertain  direct tax positions.
We have also assessed the disclosures made by the  company in this regard in standalone financial statements Provisions and Contingent Liabilities The Company is involved in various taxes and other  disputes for which final outcome cannot be easily predicted  and which could potentially result in significant liabilities.
The assessment of the risks associated with the litigations  is based on complex assumptions, which require the use  of judgement and such judgement relates, primarily, to  the assessment of the uncertainties connected to the  prediction of the outcome of the proceedings and to the  adequacy of the disclosures in the standalone financial  statements.
Because of the judgement required, the  materiality of such litigations and the complexity of the  assessment process, this area is considered as a key   audit matter.
Our audit procedures in response to this Key Audit Matter included, among  others, 	 Assessment of the process and relevant controls  implemented to identify legal and tax litigations and pending  administrative proceedings.
Assessment of assumptions used in the evaluation of potential legal  and tax risks performed by the legal and tax department of the Company  considering the legal precedence and other rulings in similar cases.
Inquiry with the legal and tax departments regarding the status  of the most significant disputes and inspection of the key  relevant documentation.
Analysis of opinion received from the experts wherever available.
Review of the adequacy of the disclosures in the notes to the  standalone financial statements.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and  Associates Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates  which are valued at cost have been adjusted for impairment  losses in line with “Ind AS 36 Impairment of assets”.
In  case there is an indication of possible impairment, the  Company carries out an impairment test by comparing  the recoverable amount of the investments determined  according to the value in use method and their carrying  amount.
The valuation process adopted by management  is complex and is based on a series of assumptions, such  as the forecast cash flows, the appropriate discounting  rate and the growth rate.
These assumptions are, by  nature, influenced by future expectations regarding the  evolution of external market.
Since judgement of the management is required to  determine whether there is indication of possible  impairment and considering the subjectivity of the  estimates relating to the determination of the cash flows  and the key assumptions of the impairment test, the area  is considered as a key audit matter.
With reference to this key audit matter, we considered the following: 	 Book value of the investments in subsidiaries, joint venture and  associates as compared to the carrying amount.
Market capitalization in case of listed entities in which investments  have been made.
Some of the entities are still in the construction stage and have not  begun commercial operations.
Based on the information and explanations obtained as above, we  concluded that the Management’s judgement regarding indication of  impairment in certain investments during the year is appropriate.
Where  there is indication of impairment, we examined the approach taken by  management to determine the value of the investments, analysed the  methods and assumptions applied by management to carry out the  impairment test and the reports obtained from the experts in valuation.
The following audit procedures were adopted: 	 identification and understanding of the significant controls  implemented by the Company over the impairment testing process;  analysis of the reasonableness of the principal assumptions made  to estimate their cash flows, and obtaining other information from  management that we deemed to be significant; 	 analysis of actual data of the year and previous years in comparison  with the original plan, in order to assess the nature of variances and  the reliability of the planning process; 	 assessment of the reasonableness of the discount rate  and growth rate; 	 Verification of the mathematical accuracy of the model used to  determine the value in use of the investments.
We also examined the adequacy of the information provided by the  Company about the impairment test and its consistency with the  requirements of Ind AS 36.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 188 189  Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information.
The other information comprises the  information included in the Financial Performance highlights, Board’s Report including Annexure to Board’s Report, Management  Discussions and Analysis, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Report on Corporate Governance, Shareholders  Information and other information in the Integrated Annual Report but does not include the standalone financial statements and our  auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance  conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above  when it becomes available, and in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone  financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of auditors’ report, we conclude  that there is a material misstatement of this information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the remaining other information, which we will obtain after the date of auditors’ report and if we conclude that there is  material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of  these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, total comprehensive  income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,  including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act.
This responsibility also includes maintenance  of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for  preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments  and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,  that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and  presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due  to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue  as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless  the management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high  level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement  when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could  reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the  audit.
We also: 	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design  and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a  basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from  error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the  circumstances.
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company has  adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone Financial Statements in place and the operating effectiveness  of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures  made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence  obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of  the Company to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention  in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to  modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
However,  future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures,  and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves  fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and  significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding  independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our  independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the  audit of the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in  our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we  determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably  be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters The standalone financial statements include the Company’s proportionate share (relating to Jointly controlled operations of E&P  activities, wherein the company is not an operator) in assets J 907.18  crore and liabilities J 219.25 crore as at March 31, 2024 and  total revenue of J 174.19 crore and profit before tax of J 60.07 crore for the year ended on that date and in items of the statement of  cash flow and related disclosures contained in the enclosed standalone financial statements.
Our observations thereon are based on  unaudited statements from the operators to the extent available with the Company in respect of 28 Blocks (out of which 11 Block is  relinquished) in India and overseas and have been certified by the management.
Our opinion in respect thereof is solely based on the  management certified information.
According to the information and explanations given to us by the Company’s management, these  are not material to the Company.
We have also placed reliance on technical/ commercial evaluations by the management in respect of categorization of wells as  exploratory, development and dry well, allocation of cost incurred on them, liability under New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP) and  nominated blocks for under-performance against agreed Minimum Work Programme.
The Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 were audited by the previous joint statutory  auditors of the Company and they had expressed an unmodified opinion on Standalone Financial Statements vide their report  dated 16 May 2023.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of  sub- section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in the paragraphs 3  and 4 of the said Order, to the extent applicable.
2.
We are enclosing our report in terms of Section 143(5) of the Act, on the basis of such checks of the books and records of the  Company as we considered appropriate and according to the information and explanations given to us, in the “Annexure B” on the  directions issued by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
3.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: a.
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 190 191  b.
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our  examination of those books.
c. The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in  Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
d. In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified under  Section 133 of the Act.
e. We have been informed that the provisions of Section 164(2) of the Act in respect of disqualification of directors are not  applicable to the Company, being a Government Company in terms of notification no.
G.S.R.463 (E) dated 5 th June, 2015  issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India.
f. With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of the  Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure C”.
g. We are informed that the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, relating to managerial remuneration are  not applicable to the Company, being a Government Company, in terms of Ministry of Corporate Affairs Notification no.
G.S.R.
463 (E) dated 5th June 2015. h. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit  and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: i.
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial  statements-Refer Note 36B to the standalone financial statements.
ii.
The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or Indian accounting standards, for material  foreseeable losses, if any, on long term contracts including derivative contracts - Refer Note 18 to the standalone  financial statements.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring the amount, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Company.
iv.
a) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material  either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds  or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity,  including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that  the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any  manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security  or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; b) The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either  individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign  entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company  shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever  by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on  behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,  nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii)  of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement.
v. As stated in Note 31 to the standalone financial statements: a) The final dividend paid by the Company during the year in respect of the same declared for the previous year is in  compliance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividends.
b) The interim dividend declared and paid by the Company during the year and until the date of this report is in  compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
c) The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval  of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
The dividend declared is in accordance with section 123  of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
vi.
Based on our examination, which included test checks, the Company has used accounting software for maintaining  its books of account for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log)  facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software.
Further,  during the course of our audit we did not come across any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with.
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from April 1, 2023, reporting under Rule  11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the statutory requirements  for record retention is not applicable for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/N500377 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/S200034 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 UDIN: 24511596BKGFTQ4179 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 UDIN: 24550715BKCYRF2105 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 UDIN: 24053960BKGFQF6451 Sd/- Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 UDIN: 24029082BKABEK7202 Place: New Delhi Date: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 192 193  ANNEXURE A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Annexure referred to in Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited on the standalone financial  statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 (i) (a) (A) The Company has generally maintained proper records showing full particulars including quantitative details and  situation of Property, Plant and Equipment including Right of Use assets.
(B) The Company has generally maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
(b) There is a regular programme of physical verification of all Property, Plant and Equipment, other than LPG cylinders and  pressure regulators with customers, over a period of three years which, in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size  of the Company and the nature of its Property, Plant and Equipment.
In our opinion and as per the information given by the  Management, the discrepancies observed were not material and have been appropriately accounted for in the books.
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of records of the Company,  the title/ lease deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee, and the lease  agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in the financial statements are held in the name of the  Company.
The details of exceptions are given in “Appendix A” to this report.
(d) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not revalued any of its Property, Plant and  Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets during the year.
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us, no proceeding has been initiated or is pending against the  Company for holding any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules  made thereunder.
(ii) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the inventory (excluding inventory lying with third parties, inventory  under joint operations and material in transit) has been physically verified by the management during the year and in our  opinion, the frequency of verification is reasonable.
In our opinion the coverage and the procedure of such verification by the  management is appropriate.
As explained to us, no discrepancy of 10% or more in the aggregate for each class of inventory  was noticed on physical verification of inventories as compared to the book records.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in  excess of five crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks and financial institutions on the basis of security of current assets.
Also,  the quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with such banks and financial institutions are in agreement with the  books of account of the Company.
(iii) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has granted loans or provided  advances in the nature of loans, or stood guarantee, or provided security during the year to the following entities: (in J crore) Particulars Guarantees Loans Advances in nature of Loans Aggregate amount granted/provided during the year: - Joint Ventures 112.00 - - - Others - 926.74 167.00 Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in  respect of above cases: - Joint Ventures 132.00 - - - Others - 869.68 98.55  (b) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the investments made, guarantees provided,  security given and the terms and conditions of the grant of all loans and advances in the nature of loans and guarantees  provided are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
(c) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the schedule of repayment of principal and  payment of interest with respect to loans and advances in the nature of loans, has been stipulated and the repayments or  receipts are regular.
(d) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there are no amounts which are overdue for  more than 90 days.
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us, no such cases were found where the loan or advance in the  nature of loan granted which have fallen due during the year, have been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle  the overdue of existing loans given to the same parties except in one case of associate company, IndianOil Adani Ventures  Limited, wherein repayment of period has been renewed involving an amount of H 15.00 crore.
(f) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, no such cases are found where the Company  has granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or  period of repayment.
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is exempted from the provisions  of section 186 of the Act (except section 186(1) of the Act) as it is engaged in the business of providing infrastructure facilities  as provided under Schedule-VI of the Act.
The provisions of section 186(1) of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
The  Company has complied with the provisions of Section 185 of the Act.
(v) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, during the year, the Company has not accepted deposits  from the public in terms of the provisions of sections 73 to 76 of the Act read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules,2014,  as amended and other relevant provisions of the Act or under the directives issued by the Reserve Bank of India and no deposits are  outstanding at the year-end except old cases under dispute aggregating to H 0.01 crore, where we are informed that the Company  has complied with necessary directions.
According to information and explanation provided to us no order has been passed by the  company law board or National Company law Tribunal or Reserve Bank of India or any Court or any other tribunal.
(vi) We have broadly reviewed the accounts and records maintained by the Company pursuant to the Rules made by the Central  Government for the maintenance of cost records under sub-section (1) of Section 148 of the Act, read with Companies (Cost  Records & Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended and we are of the opinion that prima facie the prescribed accounts and records have  been made and maintained.
We have not, however, made detailed examination of the records with a view to determine whether  they are accurate and complete.
(vii) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has been regular in depositing with appropriate  authorities undisputed statutory dues, including provident fund, employee’s state insurance, income-tax, value added tax,  goods and services tax, excise duty, cess and other statutory dues applicable to it.
Further, no undisputed amounts payable  in respect of provident fund, employee’s state insurance, income tax, value added tax, goods and services tax, cess and  any other statutory dues were in arrears, as at March 31, 2024, for a period of more than six months from the date they  become payable.
(b) The disputed statutory dues that have not been deposited on account of matters pending before appropriate authorities are  annexed in “Appendix B” with this report.
(viii) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no transactions which were not recorded in the books of  account and have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act,  1961 (43 of 1961).
(ix) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or other  borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not been declared willful defaulter by any bank  or financial institution or government or any government authority.
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has applied the term loans for the purpose for which  loans were obtained.
(d) According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the Balance Sheet of the Company  as at year end i.e., 31 st March 2024, we report that funds raised on short-term basis to the extent of H 48,318.53 crore have  been used for long-term purposes.
During the year, funds raised on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes  to the extent of H 12,954.45 crore.
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person  on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates, or joint ventures.
(f) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge  of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures, or associate companies.
(x) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised moneys by way of initial public offer  or further public offer (including debt instruments) during the year.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private  placement of shares, convertible debentures (fully, partially or optionally) during the year and therefore provisions of Section  42 and 62 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 194 195  (xi) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us and as represented by the Management and based on our  examination of the books and records of the Company and in accordance with generally accepted auditing practices in India,  no material case of frauds by the Company or on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
(b) No report has been filed by the auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,  2014 with the Central Government during the year and upto the date of this report.
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us, no whistle blower complaints were received by the Company  during the year.
(xii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company and therefore,  the reporting under Clause 3 (xii)(a), 3(xii)(b) & 3(xii)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given by the management, all transactions during the year  with the related parties were approved by the Audit Committee and are in compliance with section 177 and 188 of the Act,  where applicable and the details have been disclosed in the standalone financial statements, as required by the applicable Indian  accounting standards.
(xiv) (a) In our opinion and based on our examination, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and  nature of its business.
(b) We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date, for the period under audit.
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash  transactions specified under section 192 of the Act with directors, or persons connected with directors and therefore, reporting  under clause (xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not required to be registered under section 45-IA of the  Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(a), 3(xvi)(b), 3(xvi)(c) & 3(xvi)(d) is not applicable.
(xvii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not incurred cash losses in the  financial year 2023-24 and in the immediately preceding financial year 2022-23.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly clause 3(xviii) is not applicable.
(xix) In our opinion and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of  financial liabilities, other information accompanying the financial statements, the Board of Directors and management plans given  to us, no material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities  existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date.
(xx) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, in respect to “other than ongoing projects”,  there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to the Funds specified in Schedule VII to the Companies  Act, 2013 within a period of six months of the expiry of the financial year in compliance with second proviso to sub-section  (5) of section 135 of the said Act.
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not applicable for the year.
(b) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, with respect to “ongoing projects”, there are no  unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a special account, within a period of thirty days from the end of the  financial year in compliance with section 135(6) of the said Act.
For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/N500377 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/S200034 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 UDIN: 24511596BKGFTQ4179 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 UDIN: 24550715BKCYRF2105 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 UDIN: 24053960BKGFQF6451 Sd/- Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 UDIN: 24029082BKABEK7202 Place: New Delhi Date: 30th April 2024 Reporting as per Companies (Auditor’s Report) order 2020 Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company Appendix – A Sl.
No.
Description of the  property Gross  Carrying  Value   (J crore) Held in name of Whether  promoter,  director or  their relative  or employee Period held-  indicate  range, where  appropriate Reason for not being held in name of company 1 Freehold A Freehold Land CTMPL RCP land  at Reddimangudii 0.003 Nalluswamy  Ramar No 5/30/2005 Purchase price of the private- government  land parcel has not been   fixed   by   State  Government.
Freehold Land 0.02 RAMAVATHI/  LEGAL HEIRS No 3/20/1995 Title Appeal has been filed before Jharkhand  High Court.
Approval for the same is under  process.
Freehold Land* 0.00 RAMAVATHI/  LEGAL HEIRS No 4/28/1995 Title Appeal has been filed before Jharkhand  High Court.
Approval for the same is under  process.
Freehold Land* 0.00 Not available No 1/1/1959 Title Deed is not available or found.
Re- generation of title deed is in process for  making an application to Sub registrar.
Freehold Land 0.10 Bharat  Petroleum  Corporation  Limited (BPCL) No 10/1/1990 The land has been registered in the name of  BPCL.
BPCL has demarcated 77,540.00 Sqm  of land in the name of IOCL.
Freehold Land 0.52 Kerala state  Government  (GCDA) No 3/31/2003 Retail sales dept is following up with Govt.
Secretary and GCDA for registration.
Freehold Land 5.77 Indian  Railways No 3/31/1994 The said land had been exchanged with  railways for construction of railway siding and  the same had not been registered.
However  a person had disputed the title in the court  claiming that they have registered documents  to portion of the land (400 Sq.Yards) .
Pending  the decision of the Railways and the legal case,  IOC is unable to go ahead with the registration  of land.
Freehold Land 7.88 Bharat  Petroleum  Corporation  Limited No 5/31/2019 IOC, BPC & HPC are developing a common  user facility at Meramundali with BPC as  lead partner.
Land was purchased by BPC in  its name and as per the CUF agreement the  ownership land should be transferred to all the  partner as per there share in CUF.
Now BPCL  is in the advance stage for transferring the  ownership to both partners.
Freehold Land* 0.00 Burmah Oil  Company  Limited No 3/31/2022 Mutation is pending.
Freehold Land 0.10 APIIC No 1/18/1997 4 plots in Industrial park Kakinada were  allotted to IOCL for setting up of LPG Godown  and Showroom.
However, after few years,  APIIC intimated the cancellation of 3 plot  allotments due to non utilizations of the plots  along with refund.
IOCL is taking up the issue  with APIIC for withdrawal of cancellation order.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 196 197  Sl.
No.
Description of the  property Gross  Carrying  Value   (J crore) Held in name of Whether  promoter,  director or  their relative  or employee Period held-  indicate  range, where  appropriate Reason for not being held in name of company Land allotted by  Govt.
of Assam 0.16 Government of  Assam No 1962 Land measuring 60.50 Acre not registered in  the name of IOCL, GR for which follow is being  made with the government LAND  FREEHOLD-  REFINERY 0.20 Government of  Bihar No 1959 Govt.
of Bihar instituted a certificate case  against Barauni Refinery for realization of  the additional cost of Registration charges  towards stamp and registration fee for the  conveyance deed executed by Govt.
of Bihar in  favour of BR.
The matter related to the claim  of District Authorities, for additional cost of  Registration charges, is pending with the Hon  ble High Court, Patna.
Land-Freehold 0.40 GIDC & Others No 1962 Transfer execution pending Total 15.15 B Freehold Building Freehold Building 14.65 Govt.
of West  Bengal No 7/26/1989 The executed deed was not registered after  taking over the building.
Mutation of this plot  of Land & Building is not available.
Freehold Building 0.01 M/s Bonny  Enterprise No 4/1/1984 No one from Bonny Enterprise is traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise is closed.
Therefore,  Title Deed cannot be executed.
We are paying  the Municipal Tax regularly and are also in  possession  of  Flats  since inception.
Freehold Building 0.04 M/s Bonny  Enterprise No 5/16/1983 Freehold Building  (3 cases) 0.05 M/s Bonny  Enterprise No 4/29/1985 Freehold Building 0.06 Mukund  Constructions No 2/29/1984 Matter  under  Litigation  for execution of sale  deed Total 14.82 2 ROU assets A Leasehold Land ROU - Leasehold  Land (5) cases) 0.21 Tata Iron and  Steel Company  Limited  (TISCO) No 11/14/1996 The Land has been awarded to TISCO during  British Govt.
Embargo from State Govt.
over  Subleasing to Company.
ROU - Leasehold  Land (38 cases) 394.24 Indian Air  Force No 8/30/2011 AFS Umbrella Agreement/MOU, but no  individual Agreement for various AFS  Locations ROU - Leasehold  Land 1.94 Mumbai Port  Trust (MbPT) No 4/1/1998 A letter was submitted to MbPT Chairman  office requesting waiving of interest on arrear  and renewal of expired lease.
The concerned  location is following up with MbPT .
ROU- Leasehold  Land 22.67 Tuticorin Port  Trust No 7/31/1998 The lease agreement not yet signed due  to dispute with Tuticorin  Port  Trust  on  incorporation of MGT clause ROU- Leasehold  Land 128.38 JNPT No 7/8/2022 Title deed is pending for execution due to  disagreement between parties for start date of  agreement ROU- Leasehold  Land 0.36 SAIL No 10.02.2016 Lease renewal SD and premium has been paid  and renewal is under process ROU- Leasehold  Land 0.15 SAIL No 09.05.2004 Lease renewal SD and premium has been paid  and renewal is under process Land at Mathura  Refinery 10.18 Government of  Uttar Pradesh No 1977 Approval for lease deed & execution is pending  at the level of Department of Industries, UP  Govt., Lucknow.
Sl.
No.
Description of the  property Gross  Carrying  Value   (J crore) Held in name of Whether  promoter,  director or  their relative  or employee Period held-  indicate  range, where  appropriate Reason for not being held in name of company Land of Calico  Mill, Baroda 31.99 Gujarat  Industrial  Development  corporation No 2006 Case is pending in High Court Land at Jobra  Barrage Water  Intake Facility 32.37 Government of  Orissa No 2010 Transfer of land in name of IOCL is under  process ROU Leasehold  land- Dahej 8.29 Not available No 31.12.2016 Transfer of land in name of IOCL is under  process.
Total 630.78 B Leasehold  Building NBCC_Type VI  Flats & Parking_ Kidwai Nagar 20.42 NBCC No 1977 Under process to be registered through Land  &Development Office, Ministry of Housing and  Urban Affairs NBCC  Commercial  Space 231.02 NBCC No 2006 Under process to be registered through Land  &Development Office, Ministry of Housing and  Urban Affairs NBCC_Building_ Type V Flats 17.67 NBCC No 2010 Under process to be registered through Land  &Development Office, Ministry of Housing and  Urban Affairs Total 269.11 3 Investment  Property - 4 Non-Current  Assets held for  sale - Grand Total 929.86 *Following values are not reflected above due to rounding off: Particulars Held in name of Gross Carrying value (in J) Freehold Land Nalluswamy Ramar 30,000 Freehold Land Ramavathi/ Legal heirs 25,540 Freehold Land Not Available 24,416 Freehold Land Burmah Oil Company Limited 1 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 198 199  Sl.
No.
Name of the  Statute Nature of Dues Forum Where Dispute  is pending Gross  Amount Amount  Paid under  Protest Amount (net  of deposits) Period to which  the Amount  relates (J crore) (J crore) (J crore) (Financial Years) 1 Central Excise  Act, 1944 Central Excise Supreme Court 277.62 10.00 267.62 1989 to 2007 High Court 544.97 0.61 544.36 1996 to 2018 Tribunal 4,782.05 15.56 4,766.49 1987 to 2017 Revisionary Authority 6.95 - 6.95 2005 to 2010 Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 103.56 3.91 99.65 1996 to 2023 Total 5,715.15 30.08 5,685.07 2 Customs Act,  1962 Customs Duty Supreme Court 17.15 4.05 13.10 1998 to 2002 High Court 0.21 - 0.21 2002 to 2016 Tribunal 11.16 0.30 10.86 1994 to 2015 Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 81.88 1.27 80.61 1998 to 2012 Total 110.40 5.62 104.78 3 Sales Tax/ VAT  Legislations Sales Tax/ VAT/  Turnover Tax   Supreme Court 2,388.57 850.77 1,537.80 1986 to 2023 High Court 572.77 126.23 446.54 1989 to 2018 Tribunal 2,241.18 80.23 2,160.95 1984 to 2018 Revisionary Authority 95.88 3.13 92.75 1979 to 2011 Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 316.52 63.94 252.58 1994 to 2021 Total 5,614.93 1,124.31 4,490.63 4 Income Tax Act,  1961 Income Tax Supreme Court - - - High Court - - - Tribunal 783.52 409.95 373.57 2010 to 2014 Revisionary Authority - - - Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 6,040.22 738.42 5,301.88 2004 to 2020 Total 6,823.74 1,148.37 5,675.37 5 Finance Act,  1994 Service Tax Supreme Court - - - High Court 1.71 - 1.71 2003 to 2012 Tribunal 309.83 0.68 309.15 2006 to 2017 Revisionary Authority - - - Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 5.05 0.12 4.93 2012 to 2017 Total 316.57 0.80 315.77 Disputed Statutory Dues Appendix – B Sl.
No.
Name of the  Statute Nature of Dues Forum Where Dispute  is pending Gross  Amount Amount  Paid under  Protest Amount (net  of deposits) Period to which  the Amount  relates (J crore) (J crore) (J crore) (Financial Years) 6 State  Legislations Entry Tax Supreme Court 3.08 - 3.08 1991 to 2002 High Court 5,609.99 54.15 5,555.84 1999 to 2015 Tribunal 26.01 6.88 19.13 2007 to 2017 Revisionary Authority 1.44 0.20 1.24 1999 to 2015 Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 1.31 0.89 0.42 1998 to 2015 Total 5,641.83 62.12 5,579.71 7 The IGST Act,  2017 GST Supreme Court - - - High Court 1.38 0.11 1.27 2016 to 2024 Tribunal - - - Revisionary Authority 9.55 0.19 9.36 2017 to 2018 Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 42.04 0.96 41.09 2017 to 2022 Total 52.98 1.26 51.73 8 Other Central  / State  Legislations Others Commercial  Tax etc.
Supreme Court 12.03 0.25 11.79 2004 to 2011 High Court 54.11 0.57 53.54 2001 to 2011 Tribunal - - - Revisionary Authority - - - Appellate Authority  (Below Tribunal) 26.18 - 26.18 2009 to 2024 Total 92.32 0.81 91.51 GRAND TOTAL 24, 367.93 2,373.37 21,994.56 Note: Dues include penalty and interest, wherever applicable.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 200 201  Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ Report (Referred to in Paragraph 2 under “Other legal and regulatory requirements “of our report of even date) Sl.
No.
Directions Action Taken Impact on  standalone  financial  statements 1.
Whether the company has system in place to process all  the accounting transactions through IT system?
If yes, the  implications of processing of accounting transaction outside  IT system on the integrity of the accounts along with the  financial implications, if any, may be stated.
The Company has a robust ERP system (SAP)  to process all the accounting transactions  through IT system.
Nil 2.
Whether there is any restructuring of an existing loan or  cases of waiver/write-off of debts/loans/interest etc.
made  by a lender to the company due to the company’s inability to  repay the loan?
If yes, financial impact may be stated whether  such case are properly accounted for?
(In case, lender is a  government Company).
The Company has been regular in discharging  its principal and interest obligations on various  loans during 2023- 24.
Therefore, there are  no cases of restructuring of any loan or cases  of waiver/ write off of debts/ loans/ interest  etc.
made by any lender due to the company’s  inability to repay the loan.
Nil 3.
Whether funds (grants / subsidy etc.)
received/receivable  for specific schemes from Central/State Government or its  agencies were properly accounted for /utilized as per its term  and conditions?
List the cases of deviation.
The Company has properly accounted for/ utilized funds (grants / subsidy etc.)
received/ receivable for specific schemes from central/ state Government or its agencies, as the case  may be, as per its term and conditions Nil For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/N500377 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/S200034 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 UDIN: 24511596BKGFTQ4179 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 UDIN: 24550715BKCYRF2105 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 UDIN: 24053960BKGFQF6451 Sd/- Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 UDIN: 24029082BKABEK7202 Place: New Delhi Date: 30th April 2024 KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants 12-B Baldota Bhavan, 117, Maharshi Karve Road Mumbai – 400020 K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants 3/15, Asaf Ali Road, 4th Floor Near Delite Cinema, New Delhi - 110002 S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants A 3/7, Gillander House 8, N.S.
Road, Kolkata - 700001 KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants 7/1A, Grant Lane, Room#218, 2nd Floor, Near Lal Bazar Kolkata - 700012 Compliance Certificate We have conducted audit of annual account of Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31st March 2024 in accordance with the  direction/sub-directions issued by the C&AG of India under Section 143(5) of the Companies Act 2013 and certify that we have complied  with all the Direction/Sub-Direction issued to us.
For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/N500377 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/S200034 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 UDIN: 24511596BKGFTQ4179 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 UDIN: 24550715BKCYRF2105 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 UDIN: 24053960BKGFQF6451 Sd/- Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 UDIN: 24029082BKABEK7202 Place: New Delhi Date: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 202 203  Annexure C to the Independent Auditors’ Report Annexure referred to in Independent Auditors’ report of even date to the members of Indian Oil Corporation  Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section  3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (“the  Company”) as of March 31, 2024, in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year  ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control  with reference to standalone financial statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal  control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered  Accountants of India (ICAI).
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial  controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s  policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the  accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements  based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial  Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the  extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of Internal Financial Controls with reference to  standalone Financial Statement and both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Those Standards and the Guidance  Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were established and maintained and if such  controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to  standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to standalone  financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements,  assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control  based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the risks of  material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the  Company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to standalone financial statements A company's internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial statements for external  purposes in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles.
A company's internal financial controls with reference  to standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in  reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable  assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with  authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely  detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the standalone  financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to standalone financial statements Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements, including the  possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not  be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements to  future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to standalone financial statements may become  inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial  statements in place and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were operating effectively  as at March 31, 2024 based on the internal financial control with reference to standalone financial statements established by the  Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls  over Financial Reporting issued by the ICAI.
For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/N500377 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/S200034 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 UDIN: 24511596BKGFTQ4179 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 UDIN: 24550715BKCYRF2105 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 UDIN: 24053960BKGFQF6451 Sd/- Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 UDIN: 24029082BKABEK7202 Place: New Delhi Date: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 204 205  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 ASSETS Non-current Assets a) Property, Plant and Equipment 2  1,77,618.95  1,62,646.70  b) Capital Work-in-Progress 2.1  57,024.23  47,201.13  c) Intangible Assets 3  3,247.80  2,838.72  d) Intangible Assets Under Development 3.1  2,041.41  1,789.56  e) Financial Assets  i) Investments 4  61,557.28  47,357.57   ii) Loans 5  2,464.72  2,174.83   iii) Other Financial Assets 6  499.99  251.98  f) Income Tax Assets (Net) 7  1,799.10  1,846.96  g) Other Non-Current Assets 8  4,889.23  4,044.98  3,11,142.71  2,70,152.43  Current Assets a) Inventories 9  1,12,507.49  1,13,853.41  b) Financial Assets  i) Investments 4  9,530.90  10,161.70   ii) Trade Receivables 10  12,779.41  15,667.38   iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents 11  464.28  363.32   iv) Bank Balances other than above 12  367.92  409.69   v) Loans 5  470.68  381.87   vi) Other Financial Assets 6  5,501.64  4,494.66  c) Current Tax Assets (Net) 7  -    10.61  d) Other Current Assets 8  4,346.92  4,290.72   1,45,969.24  1,49,633.36  Assets Held for Sale 13  128.67  115.54   1,46,097.91  1,49,748.90  Total Assets  4,57,240.62  4,19,901.33  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity a) Equity Share Capital 14  13,771.56  13,771.56  b) Other Equity 15  1,62,943.42  1,20,985.98   1,76,714.98  1,34,757.54  Liabilities Non-Current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 16  41,367.53  58,157.63   ii) Lease Liabilities  6,528.11  6,667.44   iii) Other Financial Liabilities 17  233.11  160.78  b) Provisions 18  917.63  910.43  c) Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 19  16,637.10  14,613.00  d) Other Non-Current Liabilities 20  4,048.95  3,694.66   69,732.43  84,203.94  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 21  75,128.21  74,337.82   ii) Lease Liabilities  2,842.83  2,387.15   iii) Trade Payables 22   A.
Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises  1,410.52  1,019.67    B.
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small  Enterprises  50,090.44  47,656.76   iv) Other Financial Liabilities 17  55,640.06  49,289.16  b) Other Current Liabilities 20  14,684.39  16,619.42  c) Provisions 18  10,090.13  9,629.87  d) Current Tax Liabilities (Net) 7  906.63  -     2,10,793.21  2,00,939.85  Total Equity and Liabilities  4,57,240.62  4,19,901.33  Material Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 49 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For S R B  & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 206 207  (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2023-2024 2022-2023 I.
Revenue From Operations 23  8,66,345.38  9,34,952.66  II.
Other Income 24  4,780.82  6,235.22  III.
Total Income (I+II)  8,71,126.20  9,41,187.88  IV.
Expenses:  Cost of Materials Consumed 25  3,90,292.58  4,40,693.11   Excise Duty  91,996.79  95,480.46   Purchases of Stock-in-Trade  2,54,929.35  3,24,606.14   Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock in trade and   Work-in-progress 26  1,845.65  (7,064.61)  Employee Benefits Expense 27  11,079.56  8,769.85   Finance Costs 28  7,327.79  6,930.27   Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on:  a) Property, Plant and Equipment  14,343.55  11,692.25   b) Intangible Assets  166.05  167.19   14,509.60  11,859.44  Impairment Loss (including reversal of impairment loss) on Financial Assets  268.19  303.33  Net Loss on de-recognition of Financial Assets at Amortised Cost  3.90  307.84  Other Expenses 29  46,528.58  49,603.91  Total Expenses (IV)  8,18,781.99  9,31,489.74  V. Profit / (Loss) before Tax (III-IV)  52,344.21  9,698.14  VI.
Tax Expense :  Current Tax  11,615.24  442.81   [includes H44.84 crore (2023: H 13.75 crore) relating to prior years]  Deferred Tax  1,110.13  1,013.51   [includes NIL (2023: NIL) relating to prior years] VII.
Profit / (Loss) for the Year (V-VI)  39,618.84  8,241.82  VIII.
Other Comprehensive Income: 30  A (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  14,456.17  (1,199.71)  A (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit     or loss  (970.48)  (19.21)  B (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss  (197.59)  (315.32)  B (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or     loss  68.12  70.51  IX.
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year (VII+VIII) (Comprising Profit/  (Loss) and Other Comprehensive Income for the Year)  52,975.06  6,778.09  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2023-2024 2022-2023 X.
Earnings per Equity Share (J): 32  (1) Basic  28.77  5.98   (2) Diluted  28.77  5.98  Face Value Per Equity Share (H)  10  10  Material Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 49 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For S R B  & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 208 209  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 A Cash Flow from Operating Activities: 1 Profit / (Loss) before Tax  52,344.21  9,698.14  2 Adjustments for: Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on Property, Plant & Equipment and  Intangible Assets  14,509.60  11,859.44  Loss/(Profit) on Assets sold or written off (Net)  (38.26)  56.47  Amortisation of Capital Grants  (31.23)  (27.03) Provision for Probable Contingencies (net)  (48.13)  (50.80) Fair Value loss/(gain) on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit  and loss  (128.41)  340.59  Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  (328.11)  (82.34) Derecognition of Financial Assets and Advances & Claims written off  5.25  319.03  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims and Stores (net)  146.31  46.47  Impairment Loss on Financial Assets (Net)  268.19  303.33  Loss/(gain) on Derivatives  (84.09)  357.76  Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans through OCI  (46.14)  (93.11) Exchange Loss/ (Gain) on Borrowings and Lease Liabilities  1,141.59  4,896.59  Interest Income  (1,828.29)  (2,435.56) Dividend Income  (2,277.42)  (3,730.71) Finance costs  7,327.79  6,930.27  Amortisation and Remeasurement (Net) of PMUY Assets  (306.35)  69.04   18,282.30  18,759.44  3 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes (1+2)  70,626.51  28,457.58  4 Change in Working Capital (excluding Cash & Cash Equivalents): Trade Receivables & Other Assets  1,216.48  28.28  Inventories  1,302.27  (10,665.96) Trade Payables & Other Liabilities  5,589.87  3,305.21  Change in Working Capital  8,108.62  (7,332.47) 5 Cash Generated From Operations (3+4)  78,735.13  21,125.11  6 Less : Taxes paid  10,638.53  139.76  7 Net Cash Flow generated from / (used in) Operating Activities (5-6)  68,096.60  20,985.35  B  Cash Flow from Investing Activities: Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant & Equipment  610.75  804.15  Purchase of Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets  (4,284.68)  (4,137.40) Expenditure on Construction Work in Progress  (30,924.39)  (27,113.06) Proceeds from Sale of Investments  5,118.51  12.91  Investment in subsidiaries  (110.56)  -    Purchase of Other Investments  (4,266.31)  (821.81) Receipt of government grants (Capital Grant)  1.72  258.19  Interest Income received  1,875.92  1,980.68  Dividend Income on Investments  2,277.42  3,730.71  Net Cash Flow generated from / (used in) Investing Activities  (29,701.62)  (25,285.63) C Cash Flow From Financing Activities: Proceeds from Long-Term Borrowings  343.61  16,601.51  Repayments of Long-Term Borrowings  (17,286.37)  (10,086.67) Payments of Lease Liabilities (Principal + Interest)  (2,803.78)  (2,244.29) Proceeds from/(Repayments of) Short-Term Borrowings  (137.09)  9,310.42  Interest paid  (7,388.58)  (6,315.79) Dividend paid  (11,021.81)  (3,309.42) Expenses towards Issue of Bonus Shares  -    (2.07) Net Cash Flow generated from / (used in) Financing Activities  (38,294.02)  3,953.69  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 D Net Change in Cash & Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)  100.96  (346.59) E1 Cash & Cash Equivalents as at end of the year  464.28  363.32  In Current Account  449.10  354.15  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  -    0.47  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  12.91  2.74  Cheques, Drafts in hand  1.31  5.41  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.96  0.55  E2 Less: Cash & Cash Equivalents as at the beginning of year  363.32  709.91  In Current Account  354.15  693.09  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  0.47  0.80  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  2.74  4.07  Cheques, Drafts in hand  5.41  11.46  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.55  0.49  Net Change in Cash & Cash Equivalents (E1 - E2)  100.96  (346.59) (a) acquisition of assets by way of lease (net of upfront premium)  3,303.66  2,747.27  (b) issue of bonus shares  -    4,707.08  (c) unrealised exchange loss/ (gain) on borrowings and lease liabilities  883.55  4,045.13  Notes: 1.
Significant non-cash movements in investing and financing activities during the year include: 2.
Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using Indirect Method as per Indian Accounting Standard-7: Statement of Cash Flows.
For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For S R B  & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 210 211  STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 A.
Equity Share Capital (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Balance at the beginning of the year  13,771.56  9,181.04  Changes during the year - Issue of Bonus Shares  -    4,590.52  Balance at the end of the year  13,771.56  13,771.56  (J in crore) Reserve and Surplus Reserve and Surplus Items of Other Comprehensive Income Total Particulars Retained   Earnings Bond Redemption  Reserve Capital  Redemption  Reserve Capital Reserve Insurance Reserve Fair value of Equity  Instruments Fair value of Debt  Instruments Cash Flow Hedge  Reserve Opening Balance as at April 1, 2022  1,02,478.89  1,781.79  297.65  183.08  291.42  16,699.89  345.28  27.32  1,22,105.32  Profit / (Loss) for the Year  8,241.82  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    8,241.82  Other Comprehensive Income  (69.68)*  -    -    -    -    (1,149.24)  (356.16)  111.35  (1,463.73) Total Comprehensive Income  8,172.14  -    -    -    -    (1,149.24)  (356.16)  111.35  6,778.09  Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  768.59  (768.59)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Utilised for Issue of Bonus Shares/ Buy Back including expenses (net of tax)  (4,294.42)  -    (297.65)  -    -    -    -    -    (4,592.07) Appropriation towards Final Dividend  (3,305.36)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (3,305.36) Appropriation towards Insurance Reserve (Net)  (20.00)  -    -    -    20.00  -    -    -    -    Transfer from fair Value of Equity Instruments  9.88  -    -    -    (9.88)  -    -    Closing Balance as at March 31, 2023  1,03,809.72  1,013.20  -    183.08  311.42  15,540.77  (10.88)  138.67  1,20,985.98  Profit / (Loss) for the Year  39,618.84  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    39,618.84  Other Comprehensive Income  (34.53)*  -    -    -    -    13,520.22  6.98  (136.45)  13,356.22  Total Comprehensive Income  39,584.31  -    -    -    -    13,520.22  6.98  (136.45)  52,975.06  Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,013.20  (1,013.20)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Appropriation towards Interim Dividend  (6,886.04)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (6,886.04) Appropriation towards Final Dividend  (4,131.58)  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    (4,131.58) Appropriation towards Insurance Reserve (Net)  (13.75)  -    -    -    13.75  -    -    -    -    Closing Balance as at March 31, 2024  1,33,375.86  -    -    183.08  325.17  29,060.99  (3.90)  2.22  1,62,943.42  B.
Other Equity * Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Sd/- S. M. Vaidya Chairman DIN- 06995642 Sd/- Kamal Kumar Gwalani Company Secretary  ACS-13737 Sd/- Anuj Jain Director (Finance) DIN- 10310088 For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/ N500377 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 Sd/-    Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO.  Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/ S200034 As per our attached Report of even date As per our attached Report of even date For and on Behalf of Board of Directors For and on Behalf of Board of Directors Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 212 213  NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSTANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES I.
CORPORATE INFORMATION The financial statements of "Indian Oil Corporation Limited” (“the  Company” or “IOCL ”) are for the year ended March 31, 2024.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and  domiciled in India.
Its shares are listed on Bombay Stock  Exchange and National Stock Exchange in India.
The registered  office of the Company is located at Indian Oil Bhavan, G-9, Ali  Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai.
Indian Oil is India's flagship Maharatna national oil company  with business interests straddling the entire hydrocarbon value  chain - from refining, pipeline transportation & marketing, to  exploration & production of crude oil & gas, petrochemicals,  gas marketing, alternative energy sources and globalisation of  downstream operations.
The financial statements have been approved for issue in  accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors passed in  its meeting held on April 30, 2024.
II.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.
Basis of preparation and statement of compliance 1.1 The financial statements have been prepared on accrual  basis and in accordance with the applicable Indian  Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section  133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules and other  relevant provisions of the Act and Rules thereunder, as  amended from time to time.
1.2 The financial statements have been prepared on a historical  cost basis, except for the following assets and liabilities  which have been measured at fair value:  - Derivative financial instruments,  - Certain financial assets and liabilities measured at  fair value (refer serial no.
16 of accounting policies  regarding financial instruments) and   - Plan assets related to employee benefits (refer  serial no.
12 of accounting policies regarding  employee benefits) 1.3 The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (H)  which is Company’s presentation and functional currency  and all values are rounded to the nearest crore (up to two  decimals) except when otherwise indicated.
2.
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) and Intangible Assets 2.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) 2.1.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) are stated in the  Balance Sheet at cost, less any accumulated depreciation  and accumulated impairment losses (if any), except freehold  land which are carried at historical cost.
2.1.2 Technical know-how / licence fee relating to plants/ facilities and specific software that are integral part of  the related hardware are capitalised as part of cost of the  underlying asset.
2.1.3 Spare Parts are capitalized when they meet the definition  of PPE, i.e., when the Company intends to use these for a  period exceeding 12 months.
2.1.4 Environment responsibility related obligations directly  attributable to projects is recognized as project cost on  the basis of progress of project or on actual incurrence,  whichever is higher.
2.1.5 On transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected to continue  with the carrying value of all of its PPE recognized as at April  1, 2015 measured as per the previous GAAP and use that  carrying value as the deemed cost of the PPE.
2.2 Capital Work in Progress (CWIP) 2.2.1 Expenditure incurred on assets under construction  (including a project) is carried at cost under CWIP .
2.2.2 Construction Period Expenses   Revenue expenses exclusively attributable to projects  incurred during construction period are capitalized.
Borrowing cost incurred during construction period on loans  specifically borrowed and utilized for projects is capitalized  on quarterly basis up to the date of capitalization.
Borrowing cost, if any, incurred on General Borrowings used  for projects is capitalized at the weighted average cost of all  borrowings other than those mentioned above.
The amount  of such borrowings is determined on quarterly basis after  setting off the amount of internal accruals.
2.2.3 Capital Stores  Capital Stores are valued at weighted average cost.
Specific provision is made for likely diminution in value,  wherever required.
2.3 Intangible Assets & Amortisation 2.3.1 Technical know-how / licence fee relating to production  process and process design are recognized as Intangible  Assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of  the underlying plant/ facility.
2.3.2 Expenditure incurred in research phase is charged to  revenue and that in development phase, unless it is of  capital nature, is also charged to revenue.
2.3.3 Cost incurred on computer software/licences purchased/ developed resulting in future economic benefits, other  than specific software that are integral part of the  related hardware, are capitalized as Intangible Asset and  amortised over a period of three years beginning from the  month in which such software/ licences are capitalized.
However, where such computer software/ licence is  under development or is not yet ready for its intended use,  accumulated cost incurred on such items are accounted as  “Intangible Assets Under Development”.
2.3.4 Right of ways with indefinite useful lives are not amortised  but tested for impairment annually at the cash-generating  unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed  annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues  to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from  indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
2.3.5 Intangible Assets acquired are measured on initial  recognition at cost.
The cost of Intangible Assets acquired  in a business combination is based on its fair value at the  date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, Intangible  Assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation  and accumulated impairment losses.
In case of internally  generated intangibles, development cost is recognized as  an asset when all the recognition criteria are met.
2.3.6 Intangible Assets are amortised over the useful life on  straight line basis and assessed for impairment whenever  there is an indication that the Intangible Asset may be  impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation  method for an Intangible Asset are reviewed at the end of  each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life  or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic  benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify  the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and  are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The  amortisation expense on intangible assets is recognized in  the Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure  forms part of carrying value of another asset.
2.3.7 On transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected to  continue with the carrying value of all of its Intangible  Assets recognized as at April 1, 2015 measured as per the  previous GAAP and use that carrying value as the deemed  cost of the Intangible Assets.
2.3.8 Amortisation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on  assets, from/upto the month of capitalization/ sale, disposal  or classified to Asset held for disposal.
2.4 Depreciation  2.4.1 Cost of PPE (net of residual value) excluding freehold land  is depreciated on straight-line method as per the useful life  prescribed in Schedule II to the Act except in case of the  following assets:  a.
Useful life based on technical assessment 	 15 years for Plant and Equipment relating  to Retail Outlets (other than storage tanks  and related equipment), LPG cylinders and  pressure regulators 	 10 years for Dispensing Unit  	 25 years for solar power plant 	 13 years for Optical Fiber Cable  	 Certain assets of R&D Centre (15-25 years) 	 Certain assets of CGD business, (Compressor /  Booster Compressor and Dispenser - 10 years,  Cascade – 20 years) 	 Moulds used for the manufacturing of the  packaging material for Lubricants- 5 years 	 In other cases, like Spare Parts etc.
(2-30 years)  b.
In case of specific agreements e.g., enabling assets  etc., useful life as per agreement or Schedule II to the  Act, whichever is lower.
c. In case of immovable assets constructed on leasehold  land, useful life as per Schedule-II to the Act or lease  period of land (considering renewable / likely renewable  period over and above the contractual lease period  considered for the leases), whichever is lower, and  d. In case where useful life is mandated as per the other  relevant statute or any of the regulation.
The Company depreciates components of the main asset  that are significant in value and have different useful lives  as compared to the main asset separately.
The Company  depreciates spares over the life of the spare from the date it  is available for use.
2.4.2 Depreciation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on  assets, from/up to the month of capitalization/ sale,  disposal or classified to Asset held for disposal.
2.4.3 Residual value is determined considering past experience  and generally the same is between 0 to 5% of cost  of assets except:  a.
In case of Steel LPG cylinder and pressure regulator,  residual value is considered at 25% and in case of fibre  composite LPG cylinder, residual value is considered  at 10% based on estimated realisable value  b. in case of catalyst with noble metal content,  residual value is considered based on the cost of  metal content and  c. In few cases residual value is considered based on  transfer value agreed in respective agreement.
2.4.4 PPE, other than LPG Cylinders and Pressure Regulators,  costing upto H  5,000/- per item are depreciated fully in  the year of capitalization.
Further, spares, components  like catalyst excluding noble metal content and major  overhaul/ inspection are also depreciated fully over their  respective useful life.
NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 215 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24214  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.4.5 The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation  of PPE are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted  prospectively, if appropriate.
3.
Leases   The Company assesses at contract inception whether  a contract is, or contains, a lease.
That is, if the contract  conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for  a period of time in exchange for consideration.
3.1 Leases as Lessee (Assets taken on lease)  The Company applies a single recognition and measurement  approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and  leases of low-value assets.
The Company recognizes lease  liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets  representing the right to use the underlying assets.
3.1.1 Lease Liabilities  At the commencement date of the lease, the Company  recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value  of lease payments to be made over the contractual lease  term, for which enforceable rights is available.
In calculating  the present value of lease payments, the Company uses the  incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement  date, if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily  determinable.
After the commencement date, the amount  of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of  interest and reduced for the lease payments made.
3.1.2 Right-of-use Assets  The Company recognizes right-of-use (ROU) assets  at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date  the underlying asset is available for use).
Right-of-use  assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated  depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any  remeasurement of lease liabilities.
Perpetual Right of use  (ROU) assets related to land are not depreciated but tested  for Impairment loss, if any.
3.1.3 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets  The Company applies the short-term lease recognition  exemption to its short-term leases of Property, Plant and  Equipment (i.e., those leases that have a lease term of 12  months or less from the commencement date and do  not contain a purchase option).
It also applies the lease of  low-value assets recognition exemption to leases that are  considered of low value and is not intended for sublease.
Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value  assets are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over  the lease term or another systematic basis if that basis is more  representative of the pattern of the lessee’s benefit.
3.2 Leases as Lessor (assets given on lease) 3.2.1 When the company acts as lessor, it determines at the  commencement of the lease whether it is a finance lease  or an operating lease.
Rental income from operating lease  is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the  relevant lease except where another systematic basis  is more representative of the time pattern of the benefit  derived from the asset given on lease.
All assets given on finance lease are shown as receivables  at an amount equal to net investment in the lease.
Principal  component of the lease receipts is adjusted against  outstanding receivables and interest income is accounted  by applying the interest rate implicit in the lease to the  net investment.
3.2.2 When the Company is an intermediate lessor it accounts for  its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease separately.
It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with  reference to the ROU asset arising from the head lease, not  with reference to the underlying asset.
If a head lease is a  short-term lease to which the Company applies the short- term lease exemption described above, then it classifies the  sub-lease as an operating lease.
4.
Impairment Of Non-Financial Assets (Also Refer Para 14  For Impairment Of E&P Assets)  The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether  there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any  indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for  an asset is required, the Company estimates the asset’s  recoverable amount.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the  higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair  value less cost of disposal and its value in use.
Impairment  loss is recognized when the carrying amount of an asset  exceeds recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows  are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax  discount rate that reflects current market assessments of  the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less cost of disposal, recent market  transactions are taken into account.
If no such transactions  can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples,  quoted share prices for publicly traded companies or other  available fair value indicators.
The Company bases its impairment calculation on detailed  budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared  separately for each of the Company's CGUs to which the  individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and forecast  calculations generally cover a period of 15 years.
For longer  periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to  project future cash flows after the fifteenth year.
To estimate  cash flow projections beyond periods covered by the most  recent budgets/forecasts, the Company extrapolates cash  flow projections in the budget using a steady or declining  growth rate for subsequent years, unless an increasing rate  can be justified.
NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) 5.
Borrowing Costs  Borrowing costs that are attributable to the acquisition  or construction of the qualifying asset are capitalized as  part of the cost of such asset.
Capitalization of borrowing  costs is suspended when active development activity on  the qualifying assets is interrupted other than on temporary  basis and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss  during such extended periods.
All other borrowing costs are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period  in which the same are incurred.
6.
Foreign Currency Transactions 6.1 Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded at  spot exchange rates prevailing on the date of transactions.
6.2 Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies (such  as cash, receivables, payables etc.)
outstanding at the  end of reporting period, are translated at exchange rates  prevailing on that date.
6.3 Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currency,  (such as PPE, intangible assets, equity investments, capital/  revenue advances other than expected to be settled in cash  etc.)
are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date  of the transaction, other than those measured at fair value.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign  currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date  when the fair value is determined.
The gain or loss arising on  translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is  treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the  change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences  on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in Other  Comprehensive Income (OCI) or the Statement of Profit and  Loss are also recognized in OCI or the Statement of Profit  and Loss, respectively).
6.4 Any gains or losses arising due to differences in exchange  rates at the time of translation or settlement are accounted  for in the Statement of Profit and Loss either under the head  foreign exchange fluctuation or interest cost to the extent  regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs as the case  may be, except those relating to loans mentioned below.
Exchange differences on long-term foreign currency loans  obtained or re-financed on or before March 31, 2016 relating  to acquisition of depreciable assets are adjusted to the  carrying cost of the assets and depreciated over the balance  life of the assets.
7.
Inventories 7.1 Raw Materials & Work in Progress 7.1.1 Raw materials including crude oil are valued at cost  determined on weighted average basis or net realisable  value, whichever is lower.
Work in Progress is valued at raw  materials cost-plus processing cost as applicable or net  realisable value, whichever is lower.
Crude oil in Transit is  valued at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
7.1.2 Initial cost of inventories includes the transfer of gains and  losses on qualifying cash flow hedges, recognized in OCI, in  respect of the purchases of raw materials.
7.2 Finished Products and Stock in Trade 7.2.1 Finished Products and Stock in Trade, other than lubricants,  are valued at cost determined on ‘First in First Out’ basis  or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost of Finished  Products internally produced is determined based on raw  materials cost and processing cost.
7.2.2 Lubricants are valued at cost on weighted average basis or  net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost of lubricants  internally produced is determined based on cost of inputs  and processing cost.
7.2.3 Imported products in transit are valued at cost or net  realisable value whichever is lower.
7.3 Stores and Spares 7.3.1 Stores and Spares (including Chemicals, packing Containers  i.e., empty barrels, tins etc.)
are valued at weighted average  cost.
Specific provision is made in respect of identified  obsolete stores & spares and chemicals for likely diminution  in value.
Further, a provision @ 5% of cost is also made on  the balance stores and spares (excluding barrels, tins, stores  in transit, chemicals/catalysts, crude oil, and own products)  towards likely diminution in the value.
7.3.2 Stores and Spares in transit are valued at cost.
8.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities & Contingent Assets 8.1 Provisions  Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present  obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event,  it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying  economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation  and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of  the obligation.
8.2  Decommissioning Liability  Decommissioning costs are provided at the present value  of expected cost to settle the obligation using estimated  cash flows and are recognized as part of the cost of the  particular asset.
The cash flows are discounted at a  current pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the  decommissioning liability.
The unwinding of the discount is  expensed as incurred and recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss as a finance cost.
The estimated future cost  of decommissioning is reviewed annually and adjusted as  appropriate.
Changes in the estimated future cost or in the  discount rate applied are adjusted in the cost of the asset.
NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 216 217  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.3  Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 8.3.1 Show-cause notices issued by various Government  Authorities are generally not considered as obligations.
When the demand notices are raised against such show  cause notices and are disputed by the Company, these are  classified as disputed obligations.
8.3.2 The treatment in respect of disputed obligations is as under:  a) a provision is recognized in respect of present  obligations where the outflow of resources is probable  as per 8.1 above.
b) all other cases are disclosed as contingent liabilities  unless the possibility of outflow of resources is remote.
8.3.3 A contingent asset is disclosed where an inflow of economic  benefits is probable.
8.3.4 Contingent liabilities/assets are disclosed on the basis of  judgment of the management/independent experts and  reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to reflect the current  management estimate.
9.
Revenue  Revenue from Contracts with Customers 9.1  Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or  services are transferred to the customer at an amount that  reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to  be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company has generally concluded that it is the principal  in its revenue arrangements, except a few agency services,  because it typically controls the goods or services before  transferring them to the customer.
The Company considers whether there are other promises  in the contract that are separate performance obligations  to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be  allocated (e.g., customer loyalty points).
In determining the  transaction price for the sale of products, the Company  considers the effects of variable consideration, the existence  of significant financing components, non-cash consideration  and consideration payable to the customer (if any).
9.2  Revenue from the sale of petroleum products, petrochemical  products, Crude and gas are recognized at a point in time,  generally upon delivery of the products.
The Company  recognizes revenue over time using input method (on the  basis of time elapsed) in case of non-refundable deposits  from dealers and service contracts.
In case of construction  contracts, revenue and cost are recognized by measuring  the contract progress using input method by comparing the  cost incurred and total contract cost.
9.3  The Company has assumed that recovery of excise duty  flows to the Company on its own account.
This is for the  reason that it is a liability of the manufacturer which forms  part of the cost of production, irrespective of whether  the goods are sold or not.
Since the recovery of excise  duty flows to the Company on its own account, revenue  includes excise duty.
However, Sales Tax/ Goods and Services Tax (GST) and  Value Added Tax (VAT) is not received by the company on  its own account.
Rather, it is tax collected on value added  to the product by the seller on behalf of the government.
Accordingly, it is excluded from revenue.
9.4 Variable consideration   The Company provides volume rebates to certain customers  once the quantity of products purchased during the period  exceeds a threshold specified in the contract.
Rebates are  offset against amounts payable by the customer.
The volume  rebates/ cash discount give rise to variable consideration.
To  estimate the variable consideration for the expected future  rebates/ cash discount, the Company applies the most likely  amount method for contracts with a single-volume threshold  and the expected value method for contracts with more than  one volume threshold.
The selected method that best predicts  the amount of variable consideration is primarily driven by the  number of volume thresholds contained in the contract and  accordingly, the Company recognizes a refund liability for the  expected future rebates with suitable adjustments in revenue  from operations.
9.5 Loyalty Points  The Company operates various loyalty point schemes.
The transaction price allocated to customer loyalty points  is based on their relative estimated standalone selling  price and the same is reduced from revenue from sale  of goods.
While estimating standalone selling price of  customer loyalty points, the likelihood of exercising the  option is adjusted.
Wherever the Company is acting as  an agent in this arrangement, the Company recognize the  revenue on net basis.
10.
Excise Duty  Excise duty is accounted on the basis of both, payments  made in respect of goods cleared and provision made for  goods lying in stock.
Value of stock includes excise duty  payable / paid on finished goods, wherever applicable.
11.
Taxes On Income 11.1 Current Income Tax   Provision for current tax is made as per the provisions of  the Income Tax Act, 1961.
The tax rates and tax laws used  to compute the amount are those that are enacted or  substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
Current income tax relating to items recognized outside  profit or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in  other comprehensive income or in equity).
Management  periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with  respect to applicable tax regulations which are subject to  interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) 11.2 Deferred Tax 11.2.1Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet method  on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets  and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial  reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax  assets and liabilities are measured based on tax rates (and  tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted  at the reporting date.
11.2.2 Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside profit  or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in other  comprehensive income or in equity).
12.
Employee Benefits 12.1 Short Term Benefits  Short Term Employee Benefits are accounted for in the  Statement of Profit and Loss for the period during which the  services have been rendered.
12.2 Post-Employment Benefits and Other Long Term Employee  Benefits  a) The Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund is  remitted to separate trusts established for this purpose  based on a fixed percentage of the eligible employee’s  salary and charged to the Statement of Profit and  Loss/CWIP .
Shortfall, if any, in the fund assets, based  on the Government specified minimum rate of return,  is made good by the Company and charged to the  Statement of Profit and Loss/CWIP .
b) The Company operates defined benefit plans  for Gratuity, Post-Retirement Medical Benefits,  Resettlement, Felicitation Scheme and Ex-gratia.
The  cost of providing such defined benefits is determined  using the projected unit credit method of actuarial  valuation made at the end of the year.
Out of these  plans, Gratuity and Post-Retirement Medical Benefits  are administered through respective Trusts.
c) Obligations on other long term employee benefits  viz leave encashment and Long Service Awards are  provided using the projected unit credit method of  actuarial valuation made at the end of the year.
Out  of these obligations, leave encashment obligations  are funded through qualifying insurance policies made  with insurance companies.
d) The Company also operates a defined contribution  scheme for Pension benefits for its employees  and the contribution is remitted to a separate  Trust/Corporate NPS.
12.3 Remeasurements:  Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and  losses and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts  included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability),  are recognized immediately in the Balance Sheet with a  corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through  Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) in the period in which  it occurs.
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or  loss in subsequent periods.
Remeasurements in respect of  other long-term benefits are recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
13.
Grants  13.1 Grant relating to Assets (Capital Grants)  In case of grants relating to depreciable assets, the cost  of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon is  treated as Deferred income which are recognized as "Other  Operating Revenues" usually in the Statement of Profit  and Loss over the period and in the proportion in which  depreciation is charged.
13.2 Grant related to Income (Revenue Grants)  Revenue grants are recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which  the entity recognizes as expenses the related cost for which  the grants are intended to compensate.
Subsidy and budgetary support towards under recoveries  are recognized in “Revenue from Operations” as per  schemes notified by Government from time to time, subject  to final adjustments, wherever applicable.
Revenue grants are generally recorded under “Other  Operating Revenues”, except north east excise duty  exemption which is netted off with the related expense.
13.3  When loans or similar assistance are provided by  governments or related institutions, with an interest rate  below the current applicable market rate or NIL interest  rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as  a government grant.
The loan or assistance is initially  recognized and measured at fair value and the government  grant is measured as the difference between the initial  carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received.
The  loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy  applicable to financial liabilities.
Classification of the grant is  made considering the terms and condition of the grant i.e.,  whether grants relates to assets or otherwise.
14.
Oil & Gas Exploration Activities 14.1 Pre-acquisition Cost:   Expenditure incurred before obtaining the right(s) to  explore, develop and produce oil and gas are expensed as  and when incurred.
14.2 Exploration Stage:   Acquisition cost relating to projects under exploration  are initially accounted as “Intangible Assets under  Development”.
The expenses on oil and gas assets that is  classified as intangible includes acquired rights to explore  and exploratory drilling cost.
NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 218 219  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Cost of Survey and prospecting activities conducted in the  search of oil and gas are expensed as exploration cost in  the year in which these are incurred.
If the project is not viable based upon technical feasibility  and commercial viability study, then all cost relating to  Exploratory Wells are expensed in the year when determined  to be dry.
If the project is proved to be viable, then all cost  relating to drilling of Exploratory Wells shall be continued to  be presented as “Intangible Assets under Development”.
14.3 Development Stage  Acquisition cost relating to projects under development  stage are presented as “Capital Work-in-Progress”.
When a well is ready to commence commercial production,  the capitalized cost corresponding to proved developed  oil and gas reserves is reclassified as ‘Completed wells/  Producing wells’ from “Capital Work-in-Progress/ Intangible  Assets under Development” to the gross block of assets.
Examples of Oil and Gas assets that might be classified as  Tangible Assets include development drilling cost, piping  and pumps and producing wells.
14.4 Production Phase  Production cost include pre-well head and post-well head  expenses including depreciation and applicable operating  cost of support equipment and facilities are expensed off.
Depletion is calculated using the Unit of Production method  based upon proved and developed reserves.
14.5 Abandonment Phase  In case of development / production phase, abandonment  / decommissioning amount is recognized at the present  value of the estimated future expenditure.
Any change  in the present value of the estimated decommissioning  expenditure other than the unwinding of discount is adjusted  to the decommissioning provision and the carrying value  of the corresponding asset.
The unwinding of discount on  provision is charged in the Statement of Profit and Loss  as finance costs.
14.6 Impairment of E&P Assets  14.6.1 Impairment testing in case of Development and  producing assets  In case of E&P related development and producing  assets, expected future cash flows are estimated using  management’s best estimate of future oil and natural gas  prices, production volumes, proved & probable reserves  volumes and discount rate.
The expected future cash  flows are estimated on the basis of value in use concept.
The value in use is based on the cash flows expected to be  generated by the projected oil or gas production profiles up  to the expected dates of cessation of production of each  producing field, based on current estimates of proved and  probable reserves and on reasonable & supportable fiscal  assumptions that represent management’s best estimate  of the range of economic conditions that will exist over the  remaining useful life of the asset.
Management takes a  long-term view of the range of economic conditions over the  remaining useful life of the asset and, are not based on the  relatively short-term changes in the economic conditions.
However, impairment of exploration and evaluation assets  is to be done in line with para-14.6.2.
14.6.2 Impairment in case of Exploration and Evaluation assets  Exploration and Evaluation assets are tested for impairment  where an indicator for impairment exists.
In such cases, while  calculating recoverable amount, in addition to the factors  mentioned in 14.6.1, management’s best estimate of total  current reserves and resources are considered (including  possible and contingent reserve) after appropriately  adjusting the associated inherent risks.
Impairment loss  is reversed subsequently, to the extent that conditions for  impairment are no longer present.
14.6.3 Cash Generating Unit   In case of E&P Assets, the Company generally considers a  project as cash generating unit.
However, in case where the  multiple fields are using common production/transportation  facilities and are sufficiently economically interdependent  the same are considered to constitute a single Cash  Generating Unit.
15.
Current Versus Non-Current Classification  The company uses twelve months period for determining  current and non-current classification of assets and  liabilities in the balance sheet.
16.
Financial Instruments 16.1 Financial Assets  Initial recognition and measurement  All Financial Assets are recognized initially at fair value plus,  in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value  through profit or loss, transaction cost that are attributable  to the acquisition of the Financial Asset.
However, trade  receivables that do not contain a significant financing  component are measured at transaction price.
Transaction  costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial  assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are  recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Subsequent measurement  For the purpose of subsequent measurement, Financial  Assets are classified in four categories: 	 Financial Assets at amortised cost 	 Debt Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) 	 Equity Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) 	 Financial Assets and derivatives at fair value through  profit or loss (FVTPL) 16.1.1 Financial Assets at Amortised Cost  A Financial Asset is measured at the amortised cost if both  the following conditions are met:  a) The asset is held within a business model whose  objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual  cash flows, and  b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments  of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal  amount outstanding.
Financial Assets are subsequently measured at amortised  cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any  discount or premium on acquisition and fees or cost that  are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is  included in finance income in the profit or loss.
The losses  arising from impairment are recognized in the profit or loss.
Apart from the same, any income or expense arising from  remeasurement of financial assets measured at amortised  cost, in accordance with Ind AS 109, is recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
This category generally  applies to trade and other receivables.
16.1.2 Debt Instrument at FVTOCI  A ‘Debt Instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of  the following criteria are met:  a) The objective of the business model is achieved both  by collecting contractual cash flows and selling the  financial assets, and  b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent solely  payments of principal and interest (SPPI).
Debt Instruments included within the FVTOCI category are  measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair  value.
Fair Value movements are recognized in the Other  Comprehensive Income (OCI).
However, the Company  recognizes interest income, impairment losses & reversals  and foreign exchange gain or loss in the Statement of Profit  and Loss.
On derecognition of the asset, cumulative gain  or loss previously recognized in OCI is reclassified from the  Equity to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Interest earned  whilst holding FVTOCI Debt Instrument is reported as  interest income using the EIR method.
16.1.3 Equity Instrument  A.
Equity Shares in Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and  Associates at Cost  Investments in Equity Shares of Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures  and Associates are accounted for at cost in the financial  statements and the same are tested for impairment in case  of any indication of impairment.
B.
Share Warrants in Joint Ventures at FVTOCI  Investments in Share Warrants of Joint Ventures are  measured at fair value and the Company has made an  irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in the  fair value in Other Comprehensive Income.
C. Equity Investments in entities other than Subsidiaries, Joint  Ventures and Associates at FVTOCI  All such equity investments are measured at fair value  and the Company has made an irrevocable election to  present subsequent changes in the fair value in Other  Comprehensive Income.
There is no recycling of the  amounts from OCI to the Statement of Profit and Loss, even  on sale of investments.
D. Dividend income is recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss when the Company’s right to receive dividend  is established.
16.1.4 Debt Instruments and Derivatives at FVTPL  FVTPL is a residual category for Debt Instruments.
Any  debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for  categorization as at amortised cost or as FVTOCI, is  classified as at FVTPL.
This category also includes derivative financial instruments  entered into by the Company that are not designated as  hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by  Ind AS 109.Debt Instruments included within the FVTPL  category are measured at fair value with all changes  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Interest  income on such instruments has been presented under  interest income.
16.1.5  Impairment of Financial Assets  The Company applies Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model  for measurement and recognition of impairment loss on  the financial Assets that are measured at amortised cost  e.g., loans, debt securities, deposits, trade receivables  and bank balance.
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized  during the period is recognized as expense /income/ in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
In the Balance Sheet, ECL is  presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the  measurement of those assets in the Balance Sheet.
The  allowance reduces the net carrying amount.
Until the asset  meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce  impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount.
Simplified Approach  The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition  of impairment loss allowance on Trade Receivables.
The  NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 220 221  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS application of simplified approach does not require the  Company to track changes in credit risk.
Rather, it recognizes  impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each  reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision  matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio  of its trade receivables.
The provision matrix is based on its  historically observed default rates over the expected life of  the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking  estimates.
At every reporting date, the historical observed  default rates are updated and changes in the forward- looking estimates are analysed.
On that basis, the Company  estimates provision on trade receivables at the reporting date.
General Approach  For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets,  the Company determines that whether there has been a  significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition.
If credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-months ECL  is used to provide for impairment loss.
However, if credit  risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used.
If, in a  subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves  such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk  since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognizing  impairment loss allowance based on 12-months ECL.
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all  possible default events over the expected life of a financial  instrument.
The 12-months ECL is a portion of the lifetime  ECL which results from default events that are possible  within 12 months after the reporting date.
16.2  Financial Liabilities 16.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement  All Financial Liabilities are recognized initially at fair value  and, in the case of liabilities subsequently measured at  amortised cost, they are measured net of directly attributable  transaction cost.
In case of Financial Liabilities measured at  fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs directly  attributable to the acquisition of financial liabilities are  recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company’s Financial Liabilities include trade and  other payables, loans and borrowings and derivative  financial instruments.
16.2.2 Subsequent measurement  The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their  classification, as described below:  A.
Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss   Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss  include financial liabilities held for trading and financial  liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair  value through the Statement of Profit and Loss.
This  category also includes derivative financial instruments  entered into by the Company that are not designated  as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as  defined by Ind AS 109.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
B.
Financial Liabilities at amortised cost   Financial Liabilities that are not held-for-trading and  are not designated as at FVTPL are measured at  amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting  periods.
The carrying amounts of financial liabilities  that are subsequently measured at amortised cost are  determined based on the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss when the liabilities are derecognized  as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  any discount or premium on acquisition and fees  or cost that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR  amortisation is included as finance costs in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
C. Financial Guarantee Contracts   Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company  are those contracts that require a payment to be made  to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the  specified debtor fails to make the payment when due  in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially  as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction cost  that are directly attributable to the issuance of the  guarantee.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at  the higher of the amount of loss allowance determined  as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the  amount initially recognized less cumulative income  recognized in accordance with principles of Ind AS 115.
16.3 Derivative Instrument- Initial recognition / subsequent  measurement  Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized  at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is  entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value of  derivatives depends on the designation or non- designation  of derivative as hedging instruments.
Derivatives are carried  as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as  financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
16.3.1 Derivative that are designated as Hedge Instrument  The Company generally designates the whole contract as  hedging instrument, and these hedges are accounted for as  cash flow hedges.
At the inception of a hedge relationship,  the Company documents the hedge relationship to which  the Company wishes to apply hedge accounting, the risk  NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) management objective, strategy for undertaking the hedge,  the hedging/ economic relationship, the hedged item or  transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, hedge ratio  and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of changes  in the hedging instrument’s fair value in offsetting the  exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash  flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of these  derivatives is recognized in Other Comprehensive Income  and accumulated under the heading Cash Flow Hedge  Reserve within Equity.
The fair value changes relating  to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Amounts previously  recognized in OCI and accumulated in equity relating to  effective portion are reclassified to Statement of Profit and  Loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit  or loss, in the same line item as the recognized hedged  item or treated as basis adjustment if a hedged forecast  transaction subsequently results in the recognition of  a non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a  forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the  cumulative gain or loss accumulated in equity is transferred  to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
16.3.2 Derivatives that are not designated as Hedge Instrument  The Company enters into certain derivative contracts to  hedge risks which are not designated as hedges.
Such  contracts are accounted for at fair value through the  Statement of Profit and Loss and are included in the Other  Income or Other Expenses as Gain on Derivatives or Loss on  Derivatives respectively.
17.
Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash and Cash Equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise  cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an  original maturity of three months or less, which are subject  to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdraft  (negative balance in Account) is shown under short term  borrowings under Financial Liabilities & Positive balance in  that account is shown in Cash & Cash Equivalents.
18.
Treasury Shares  Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation, IOC Shares  Trust has been set up by IOCL for holding treasury shares  in relation to IBP and BRPL mergers.
The shares held by IOC  Shares Trust are treated as treasury shares.
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury  shares) are recognized at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognized in the Statement of Profit and  Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the  Company’s own equity instruments.
III.
NEW STANDARDS/ AMENDMENTS AND OTHER  CHANGES EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2023 OR THEREAFTER  Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new standard or  amendments to the existing standards.
On 31 st March  2023, vide Notification G.S.R.
242(E) dated 31 st March 2023,  modifications in existing standards have been notified  which will be applicable from April 1, 2023, as below: a. Ind AS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements:  The Company has adopted the amendment wherein the  company was required to disclose the material accounting  policy in its Financial Statements instead of the significant  accounting policy.
Accordingly, the company is disclosing  material accounting policies as Note-1A.
There is no change  in the accounting policy adopted by the company during the  financial year 2023-2024. b. Ind AS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting  Estimates and Errors:  The Company has adopted the amendments w.e.f.
April 1,  2023.
The impact of this amendment is not material.
c. Ind AS 12 - Income Taxes:  The Company has adopted the amendments w.e.f.
April 1,  2023.
The impact of this amendment is not material.
IV.
NEW STANDARDS/ AMENDMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT  YET EFFECTIVE  Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new standard or  amendments to the existing standards.
During the year, no  new standard or modifications in existing standards have  been notified which will be applicable from April 1, 2024,  or thereafter.
NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 222 223  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 1B: ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires  management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets  and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the  disclosure of contingent liabilities.
These include recognition  and measurement of financial instruments, estimates of useful  lives and residual value of Property, Plant and Equipment and  Intangible Assets, valuation of inventories, measurement of  recoverable amounts of cash-generating units, measurement of  employee benefits, actuarial assumptions, provisions etc.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could  result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the  carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
The Company continually evaluates these estimates and  assumptions based on the most recently available information.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized prospectively  in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which the  estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
A. JUDGEMENTS  In the process of applying the company’s accounting  policies, management has made the following judgements,  which have the significant effect on the amounts recognised  in the financial statements:  Materiality  Ind AS requires assessment of materiality by the Company  for accounting and disclosure of various transactions  in the financial statements.
Accordingly, the Company  assesses materiality limits for various items for accounting  and disclosures and follows on a consistent basis.
Overall  materiality is also assessed based on various financial  parameters such as Gross Block of assets, Net Block of  Assets, Total Assets, Revenue and Profit Before Tax.
The  materiality limits are         reviewed and approved by the Board.
Intangible Asset under Development  Acquisition costs and drilling of exploratory well costs are  capitalized as intangible asset under development and are  reviewed at each reporting date to confirm that exploration  drilling is still under way or work has been determined / under  way to determine that the discovery is economically viable  based on a range of technical & commercial considerations  and for establishing development plans and timing, sufficient  / reasonable progress is being made.
If no future activity is  planned on reasonable grounds / timeframes, Intangible  asset under development and property acquisition costs is  written off.
Upon start of production from field and recognition  of proved reserves, cost carried as intangible asset under  development is transferred to producing properties.
Also refer  Note-34 for related disclosures.
Contingencies  Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course  of business in relation to claims against the Company,  including legal, contractor, land access and other claims.
By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when  one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence, and potential quantum, of  contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant  judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome  of future events.
B.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS  The key assumptions concerning the future and other  key sources of estimation at the reporting date, that have  a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the  carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next  financial year, are described below.
Existing circumstances and assumptions about future  developments, however, may change due to market changes  or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the  company.
Such changes are reflected in the assumptions  when they occur.
Defined benefit plans/ Other Long term employee  benefits  The cost of the defined benefit plans and other long term  employee benefit plans are determined using actuarial  valuations.
An actuarial valuation involves making various  assumptions that may differ from actual developments in  the future.
These include the determination of the discount  rate, future salary increases and mortality rates.
Due to  the complexities involved in the valuation and its long- term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive  to changes in these assumptions.
All assumptions are  reviewed at each reporting date.
The parameter most subject to change is the discount  rate.
The management considers the interest rates of  government securities based on expected settlement  period of various plans.
Further details about various employee benefit obligations  are given in Note 35.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments  When the fair values of financial assets and financial  liabilities recorded in the Balance Sheet cannot be measured  based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value  is measured using valuation techniques including the  Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model based on level-2 and  level-3 inputs.
The inputs to these models are taken from  observable markets where possible, but where this is not  feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing  fair values.
Judgements include considerations of inputs  such as price estimates, volume estimates, rate estimates  etc.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could  affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Also refer Note 39 for further disclosures of estimates  and assumptions.
NOTE – 1B: ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS (Contd..)  Impairment of Financial Assets  The impairment provisions for trade receivables are made  considering simplified approach based on assumptions  about risk of default and expected loss rates.
The Company  uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting  the inputs to the impairment calculation based on the  company’s past history and other factors at the end of  each reporting period.
In case of other financial assets,  the Company applies general approach for recognition of  impairment losses wherein the Company uses judgement in  considering the probability of default upon initial recognition  and whether there has been a significant increase in credit  risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period.
Also refer Note-40 for impairment analysis and provision.
Income Taxes  The Company uses estimates and judgements based on the  relevant facts, circumstances, present and past experience,  rulings, and new pronouncements while determining the  provision for income tax.
A deferred tax asset is recognised  to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit  will be available against which the deductible temporary  differences and tax losses can be utilised.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 224 225  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 2: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (J in crore) Particulars  Land -  Freehold  Buildings,  Roads etc.
Plant and  Equipment  Office  Equipment Transport  Equipment  Furniture  & Fixtures Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right of  Use Assets  (ROU) Total (Refer  A&D) (Refer  B&D) (Refer D) GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2023 3,829.68  21,817.90  1,77,538.22  2,730.08  106.63  2,378.98  316.17  1,309.60  199.26  14,616.20  2,24,842.72  Additions during the year  62.28  179.24  3,283.22  361.68  6.05  80.45  2.38  0.66  -    3,464.63  7,440.59  Transfers from Capital work- in-progress  -    3,413.79  18,537.05  318.16  3.25  465.06  2.32  8.13  0.66  -    22,748.42  Disposals/ Deductions/  Transfers/ Reclassifications  (14.58)  (106.10)  (641.30)  (253.83)  (1.96)  (14.12)  (1.47)  (0.04)  -    (2,065.41)  (3,098.81) Gross Block as at   March 31, 2024 3,877.38 25,304.83  1,98,717.19  3,156.09  113.97  2,910.37 319.40  1,318.35  199.92 16,015.42 2,51,932.92  DEPRECIATION &  AMORTISATION Depreciation & Amortisation as  at April 01, 2023  -    5,760.03  47,962.70  1,681.98  53.60  1,381.68  94.06  355.90  75.66  4,728.92  62,094.53  Depreciation & Amortisation  during the year (Refer C)  -    1,183.17  9,564.25  430.35  8.49  227.48  19.44  51.24  9.98  2,930.52  14,424.92  Disposals/ Deductions/  Transfers/ Reclassifications  -    (12.37)  (245.61)  (148.35)  (0.99)  (14.06)  -    (0.01)  -    (1,885.58)  (2,306.97) Depreciation & Amortisation  as at March 31, 2024  -    6,930.83  57,281.34  1,963.98  61.10  1,595.10 113.50  407.13  85.64  5,773.86  74,212.48  IMPAIRMENT Impairment Loss as at April  01, 2023  -    -    98.39  -    -    -    -    -    -    3.10  101.49  Impairment Loss during the  year  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Impairment Loss as at   March 31, 2024  -    -    98.39  -    -    -    -    -    -    3.10  101.49  Net Block as at   March 31, 2024 3,877.38 18,374.00  1,41,337.46  1,192.11  52.87  1,315.27 205.90  911.22  114.28 10,238.46 1,77,618.95  (J in crore) Particulars  Land -  Freehold  Buildings,  Roads etc.
Plant and  Equipment  Office  Equipment Transport  Equipment  Furniture  & Fixtures Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right of  Use Assets  (ROU) Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2022  3,719.59  19,510.55  1,55,213.43  2,418.59  99.72  884.67  203.23  1,275.53  202.34  12,787.89  1,96,315.54  Additions during the year  131.03  213.48  2,983.01  348.87  3.62  66.90  0.88  14.64  -    3,013.05  6,775.48  Transfers from Capital work-in- progress  -    2,335.36  21,542.27  170.82  1.88  216.89  112.23  19.90  0.15  -    24,399.50  Disposals/ Deductions/ Transfers/  Reclassifications  (20.94)  (241.49)  (2,200.49)  (208.20)  1.41  1,210.52  (0.17)  (0.47)  (3.23)  (1,184.74)  (2,647.80) Gross Block as at March 31, 2023  3,829.68 21,817.90  1,77,538.22  2,730.08  106.63  2,378.98 316.17  1,309.60  199.26 14,616.20  2,24,842.72  DEPRECIATION &  AMORTISATION Depreciation & Amortisation as at  April 01, 2022  -    4,762.36  41,305.85  1,455.75  45.00  446.50  75.05  305.13  61.05  3,462.77  51,919.46  Depreciation & Amortisation during  the year (Refer C)  -    1,041.23  7,813.78  372.81  7.93  251.30  18.57  51.20  14.61  2,170.27  11,741.70  Disposals/ Deductions/ Transfers/  Reclassifications  -    (43.56)  (1,156.93)  (146.58)  0.67  683.88  0.44  (0.43)  -    (904.12)  (1,566.63) Depreciation & Amortisation   as at March 31, 2023  -    5,760.03  47,962.70  1,681.98  53.60  1,381.68  94.06  355.90  75.66  4,728.92  62,094.53  IMPAIRMENT Impairment Loss as at April 01, 2022  -    -    82.55  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    82.55  Impairment  Loss during the year  -    -    15.84  -    -    -    -    -    -    3.10  18.94  Impairment Loss as at   March 31, 2023  -    -    98.39  -    -    -    -    -    -    3.10  101.49  Net Block as at March 31, 2023 3,829.68 16,057.87  1,29,477.13 1,048.10  53.03 997.30 222.11 953.70 123.60 9,884.18  1,62,646.70  Current Year Previous Year NOTE - 2: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Contd..) (J in crore) Asset Particulars Gross Block Accumulated  Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated  Impairment  Loss W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2024 W.D.V.
as at   March 31,  2023 Land - Freehold  7.58  -    -    7.58  12.07  ROU Asset (Land - Leasehold)  91.27  21.27  -    70.00  68.35  Buildings  112.95  28.58  -    84.37  128.78  Plant and Equipment  200.61  41.30  -    159.31  234.34  Office Equipment  11.51  8.36  -    3.15  5.51  Furniture  1.14  0.50  -    0.64  0.94  Drainage, Sewage & Water Supply  1.54  0.14  -    1.40  1.43  Total  426.60  100.15  -    326.45  451.42  A. i) Freehold Land includes H 1.61 crore (2023: H 1.61 crore) lying vacant due to title disputes/ litigation.
ii) Out of the Freehold land measuring 1364.01 acres at Mathura and Agra regions, land measuring 50 acres (approx) has been  acquired by NHAI as a part of the NH2 widening project for which the determination of value of compensation is pending.
Accordingly, the value of land amounting to H 1.18 crore is continued to be included in Freehold land.
iii) Freehold Land of 490 acres at Guwahati Refinery includes land parcel of approx.
32.39 acres (Costing H 0.05 crore) on which  public roads, drains etc.
have been constructed by PWD, Govt.
of Assam.
iv) Freehold Land includes H 41.75 crore of compensation paid in respect of land at Panipat Refinery as per District and High  court orders of earlier dates, which was later quashed by subsequent High Court order dated 18.12.2019.
Since, the process  of recovery of compensation already paid, has been stayed by Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order dated 21.09.2020, necessary  adjustment shall be made in the cost of the land upon actual recovery, if any.
B. i) Buildings include H 0.01 crore (2023: H 0.01 crore) towards 1605 (2023: 1605) nos.
of shares in Co-operative Housing Societies  towards membership of such societies for purchase of flats.
ii) Includes Roads, Bridges etc.
(i.e., Assets other than Building) of Gross block amounting to H 6,699.32 crore (2023: H 6,077.96  crore) and net block amounting to H 3,538.55 crore (2023: H 3,302.68 crore).
C. Depreciation and amortisation for the year includes H 81.37 crore (2023: H 68.39 crore) relating to construction period expenses  shown in 'Note - 2.2' D. Land and Buildings (Including ROU Asset) includes Gross Carrying Value of H 930.26 crore (2023: H 899.37 crore) in respect of  which Title/ Lease Deeds are pending for execution or renewal.
(Refer Note - 48) E. During the year, Useful life of Dispensing Unit has been reviewed, and based on technical assessment, Useful life has been  changed from 15 years to 10 years.
The impact on account of this change is increase in depreciation charge by H 431.55 crore in   FY 2023-24 which will be offset over future periods in the Statement of Profit & Loss.
F. During the year, Useful life of LPG Carousel and ATF Refueller have been reviewed and changed from 25 years to 15 years.
The  impact on account of this change is increase in depreciation charge by H 83.50 crore in FY 2023-24 which will be offset over future  periods in the Statement of Profit & Loss.
G. The Company has reassessed estimated residual value of CGD & Cross-Country Pipeline, Optical Fiber Cable, DCS, PLC & SCADA,  and revised it to zero percent.
This has resulted in increase in depreciation by H 175.61 crore in FY 2023-24 which will be offset  over future periods in the Statement of Profit & Loss.
H. For further details regarding ROU Assets, refer 'Note - 36'.
I.
In accordance with the requirements prescribed under Schedule II to Companies Act, 2013, the Company has adopted useful lives  as prescribed in that schedule except in some cases as per point no.
2.4.1 of material accounting policies (Note-1).
Details of assets given on operating lease included in Property, Plant and Equipment: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 226 227  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 2: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Contd..)  Details of Company's share of Jointly Owned Assets included in Property, Plant and Equipment: (J in crore) Asset Particulars Name of Joint Owner* Gross  Block Accumulated  Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated  Impairment  Loss W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2024 W.D.V.
as at   March 31,  2023 Land - Freehold HPCL, BPCL  9.65  -    -    9.65  1.59  ROU Asset (Land -  Leasehold) BPCL  0.05  0.01  -    0.04  0.05  Buildings HPCL, BPCL, Others  72.00  24.90  -    47.10  38.22  Plant and Equipment HPCL, BPCL, RIL, Others  66.81  28.78  -    38.03  46.21  Office Equipment BPCL  1.00  0.54  -    0.46  0.21  Railway Sidings HPCL, BPCL  18.39  8.77  -    9.62  9.05  Drainage, Sewage & Water  Supply HPCL, BPCL, GSFC  0.40  0.08  -    0.32  0.36  Total 168.30  63.08  -    105.22  95.69   * HPCL: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., BPCL: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., GSFC: Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Ltd., RIL: Reliance  Industries Limited  Additions to Gross Block Includes:  (J in crore) Asset Particulars   Exchange Fluctuation Borrowing Cost 2023-2024 2022-2023 2023-2024 2022-2023 Buildings  (0.15)  6.37  66.94  32.41  Plant and Equipment  (8.55)  346.94  1,017.84  980.66  Office Equipment  -    0.14  7.40  0.24  Furniture & Fixtures  -    -    0.48  0.10  Railway Sidings  -    -    -    3.76  Drainage, Sewage & Water Supply  (0.34)  14.63  -    5.15  Total  (9.04)  368.08  1,092.66  1,022.32  (J in crore) Asset Particulars   Temporarily Idle  Retired from Active Use and  not classified as Held for Sale   Immovable Assets constructed  on short-term leases *  March 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 March 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 March 31,  2024 March 31,  2023  Land - Freehold  3.09  2.35  0.46  0.46  -    -     Land - Leasehold  0.54  0.05  -    -    -    -     Buildings  10.14  12.72  11.33  3.36  493.46  351.78   Plant and Equipment  195.91  222.42  174.82  130.46  -    0.27   Office Equipment  0.05  0.45  0.08  0.06  -    -     Furniture & Fixtures  0.50  0.62  0.38  0.10  -    -     Railway Sidings  -    -    0.07  0.07  -    -     Total  210.23  238.61  187.14  134.51  493.46  352.05   Carrying Value of temporarily idle assets/ assets retired from active use and not classified as held for sale/ immovable  assets constructed on short-term leases included in Property, Plant and Equipment:  * Includes leases for which agreement are yet to be entered or due for renewal.
(J in crore) Particulars Construction  Work in Progress  - Tangible Assets Capital StoresCapital Goods  in Transit Construction  Period Expenses  pending allocation Total Refer A Refer B Balance as at beginning of the year  34,370.10  8,490.41  1,126.11  3,426.39  47,413.01  Additions during the year  29,047.47  4,614.50  1,940.15  -    35,602.12  Net expenditure during the year (Note - 2.2)  -    -    -    1,399.11  1,399.11  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment  (Note 2)  (22,748.42)  -    -    -    (22,748.42) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment -  Direct Addition  -    -    (28.92)  -    (28.92) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (2.25)  (0.01)  -    -    (2.26) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  3,169.61  (4,265.63)  (1,331.52)  (1,936.94)  (4,364.48)  43,836.51  8,839.27  1,705.82  2,888.56  57,270.16  Provision for Capital Losses  (190.17)  (55.76)  -    -    (245.93) Balance as at end of the year  43,646.34  8,783.51  1,705.82  2,888.56  57,024.23  (J in crore) Particulars Amount of CWIP for a period of TotalLess than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  30,390.64  18,964.96  5,430.84  2,113.36  56,899.80  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  153.80  42.31  1.79  172.46  370.36  Total  30,544.44  19,007.27  5,432.63  2,285.82  57,270.16  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  27,085.67  11,922.23  5,147.60  3,079.05  47,234.55  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  0.60  2.35  16.88  158.63  178.46  Total  27,086.27  11,924.58  5,164.48  3,237.68  47,413.01  (J in crore) Particulars Construction  Work in Progress  - Tangible Assets Capital StoresCapital Goods  in Transit Construction  Period Expenses  pending allocation Total Refer A Refer B Balance as at beginning of the year 33,662.52  5,442.97  545.61  3,293.70  42,944.80  Additions during the year  20,946.10  6,360.32  1,254.67  -    28,561.09  Net expenditure during the year (Note - 2.2)  -    -    -    2,334.84  2,334.84  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment  (Note 2)  (24,399.50)  -    -    -    (24,399.50) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment -  Direct Addition  -    -    (4.12)  -    (4.12) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (1.14)  (0.05)  -    -    (1.19) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  4,162.12  (3,312.83)  (670.05)  (2,202.15)  (2,022.91)  34,370.10  8,490.41  1,126.11  3,426.39  47,413.01  Provision for Capital Losses  (189.58)  (22.30)  -    -    (211.88) Balance as at end of the year  34,180.52  8,468.11  1,126.11  3,426.39  47,201.13  NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS Current Year Previous Year A.
Includes H 461.21 crore (2023: H 383.73 crore) towards Capital Expenditure relating to ongoing Oil & Gas Exploration &  Production activities B.
Includes H 678.92 crore (2023: H 260.05 crore) towards Stock lying with Contractors Ageing of Capital Work in Progress Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 228 229  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its Original Plan NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in  Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress - Guwahati Refinery Expansion  277.12  -    -    -    - Barauni Refinery Expansion  7,922.17  -    -    -    - Acrylics / Oxo Alcohol Project at Dumad, Gujarat  2,366.90  -    -    -    - Petrochemical and Lube Integration Project at Gujarat  Refinery  -    5,712.84  -    -    - RLNG Infrastructure at Haldia Refinery  127.48  -    -    -    - 2G Ethanol Project at Panipat Refinery  622.28  -    -    -    - Ethanol production from PSA off gas at Panipat Refinery  (3G)  148.02  -    -    -    - Catalyst Plant at Panipat Refinery  166.96  -    -    -    - PX-PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  363.21  -    -    -    - PBR Project at Panipat Refinery  -    95.13  -    -    - Panipat Refinery Expansion  -    9,305.46  -    -    - Additional Storage Tanks at Paradip Refinery  434.99  -    -    -    - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project at Paradip Refinery  1,588.60  -    -    -    - Installation of Standby SRU Train along with Incinerator  at Paradip Refinery  267.02  -    -    -    - Integrated Para Xylene (PX) and Purified Terephthalic  Acid (PTA) Project at Paradip Refinery  -    5,867.45  -    -    - Infrastructure for R-LNG Utilization Project at Paradip  Refinery  138.85  -    -    -    - 30” Haldia-Barauni Crude oil pipeline and conversion of  existing 18” Haldia-Barauni section to Product & Gas  service  138.34  -    -    -    - Ennore Tuticorin Bengaluru Natural Gas Pipeline  716.85  -    -    -    - Paradip-Hyderabad Pipeline  602.66  -    -    -    - Augmentation of Salaya Mathura Crude Oil Pipeline  System  783.49  -    -    -    - Lube Complex at Amullavoyal  715.71  -    -    -    - Chittoor LPG Bottling Plant  118.96  -    -    -    - POL Terminal at Malkapur  257.39  -    -    -    - Vizag Terminal Revamping  114.13  -    -    -    - Khordha Bottling Plant  118.39  -    -    -    - BK-CBM-2001/1  302.06  -    -    -    - NK-CBM-2001/1  -    142.02  -    -    - New R&D Campus  -    758.91  -    -    - Other Projects *  2,496.01  149.57  -    0.48  Total  20,787.59  22,031.38  -    0.48  ii) Projects temporarily suspended - 80 TPH Petcoke Fired Boiler Project at Guwahati  Refinery  -    -    -    120.38  - Other Projects *  12.67  -    -    81.91  Total  12.67  -    -    202.29  * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Other Projects NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in  Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Previous Year i) Projects in Progress - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  2,150.23  -    -    -    - Infrastructure development to facilitate import of Grid  power  556.93  -    -    -    - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat Refinery  595.30  -    -    -    - Ethanol production from PSA Off gas at Panipat  Refinery  157.37  -    -    -    - Catalyst Manufacturing Unit at Panipat Refinery  241.43  -    -    -    - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  649.90  -    -    -    - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  628.52  -    -    -    - Infrastructure at Dumad for Koyali Ahmednagar Solapur  Pipeline (KASPL)  207.85  -    -    -    - Additional Tankages Project at Paradip Refinery  375.10  -    -    -    - MEG Project at Paradip Refinery  177.34  -    -    -    - Acrylics / Oxo Alcohol Project  2,613.86  -    -    -    - Catalytic  Dewaxing Unit  526.37  -    -    -    - Infrastructure for utilization of Natural Gas  129.43  -    -    -    - Installation Of Standby SRU Train  171.24  -    -    -    - 30” Haldia-Barauni Crude oil pipeline and conversion of  existing 18” Haldia-Barauni section to Product & Gas  service  2,617.23  -    -    -    - Ennore Tuticorin Bengaluru Natural Gas Pipeline  2,219.91  -    -    -    - Koyali Ahmednagar Solapur Pipeline  867.89  -    -    -    - Paradip-Hyderabad Pipeline  767.47  -    -    -    - Replacement of existing Twin 42” Offshore Pipelines at  Vadinar along with two Existing Pipeline end manifolds  and one old Buoy  625.81  -    -    -    - Paradip-Somnathpur-Haldia Pipeline  497.73  -    -    -    - Augmentation of PHDPL and its extension upto Patna  and Muzaffarpur  338.82  -    -    -    - Muzaffarpur-Motihari LPG Pipeline  188.75  -    -    -    - Cochin LPG Import facility  662.30  -    -    -    - LPG Import Facility at Paradip  615.00  -    -    -    - Augmentation of Kandla LPG Import Terminal  306.72  -    -    -    - POL Terminal at Atchutapuram  272.85  -    -    -    - TOP at Solapur Depot  256.52  -    -    -    - Vizag Terminal Revamping  50.00  101.48  -    -    - KASO Admin Building, Guest House,Quarters & Transit  124.24  -    -    -    - LPG BP at Kharagpur  103.54  -    -    -    - BK-CBM-2001/1  250.32  -    -    -    - NK-CBM-2001/1  -    -    124.42  -    - Other Projects *  1,897.61  78.87  1.81  3.08  Total  21,843.58  180.35  126.23  3.08  ii) Projects temporarily suspended - 80 TPH Petcoke Fired Boiler Project at Guwahati  Refinery  -    -    -    120.92  - Other Projects *  16.74  -    -    39.92  Total  16.74  -    -    160.84  Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its Original  Plan * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Other Projects Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 230 231  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 3: INTANGIBLE ASSETS Current Year (J in crore) Particulars Right of Way  (Refer A) Licences Computer Software  (Refer B) Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2023  1,457.02  1,825.34  491.22  3,773.58  Additions during the year  91.66  27.14  28.95  147.75  Transfers from Intangible Assets under Development  -    291.85  139.86  431.71  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications  -    (0.98)  (3.45)  (4.43) Gross Block as at March 31, 2024  1,548.68  2,143.35  656.58  4,348.61  AMORTISATION Amortisation as at April 01, 2023  23.64  514.15  397.07  934.86  Amortisation during the year  0.29  97.40  68.36  166.05  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications  -    (0.03)  (0.07)  (0.10) Amortisation as at March 31, 2024  23.93  611.52  465.36  1,100.81  Net Block as at March 31, 2024  1,524.75  1,531.83  191.22  3,247.80  (J in crore) Particulars Right of Way  (Refer A) Licences Computer Software  (Refer B) Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2022  1,380.17  1,534.24  424.52  3,338.93  Additions during the year  76.85  0.30  32.04  109.19  Transfers from Intangible Assets under Development  -    296.75  35.55  332.30  Deductions / Transfers / Reclassifications  -    (5.95)  (0.89)  (6.84) Gross Block as at March 31, 2023  1,457.02  1,825.34  491.22  3,773.58  Previous Year Note - 2.2: CONSTRUCTION PERIOD EXPENSES (NET) DURING THE YEAR (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Employee Benefit Expenses  406.50  408.99  Repairs and Maintenance  2.29  6.29  Consumption of Stores and Spares  0.01  0.02  Power & Fuel  21.93  96.38  Rent  7.66  31.80  Rates and Taxes  2.18  5.63  Travelling Expenses  29.27  47.71  Communication Expenses  1.41  1.69  Printing and Stationery  0.52  1.19  Electricity and Water Charges  18.89  9.97  Bank Charges  0.76  0.04  Technical Assistance Fees  1.40  0.79  Finance Costs A  842.96  1,470.55  Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on:  Property, Plant and Equipment  81.37  68.39   Intangible Assets  -    -    Start Up/ Trial Run Expenses (net of revenue)  (15.07)  153.61  Others  76.36  86.57  Total Expenses  1,478.44  2,389.62  Less : Recoveries  79.33  54.78  Net Expenditure during the year  1,399.11  2,334.84  A.
Rate of Specific borrowing eligible for capitalisation is 1.08% to 8.04% (2023: 1.08% to 8.04%) NOTE - 3: INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Contd..) A.
Net Block of Intangible Assets with indefinite useful life (J in crore) Particulars At March 31, 2024 At March 31, 2023 Right of way 1,522.43 1,430.76  Right of way for laying pipelines are acquired on a perpetual basis.
B.
Details of Company's share of Jointly Owned Assets included in the above: (J in crore) Asset Particulars Name of Joint Owner* Gross Block Accumulated  Depreciation &  Amortisation W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2024 W.D.V.
as at   March 31,  2023 Computer Software HPCL, BPCL  3.73  1.32  2.41  0.13  Total  3.73  1.32  2.41  0.13   * HPCL: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., BPCL: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (J in crore) Particulars Right of Way  (Refer A) Licences Computer Software  (Refer B) Total AMORTISATION Amortisation as at April 01, 2022  23.17  422.93  317.52  763.62  Amortisation during the year  0.47  89.69  77.03  167.19  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers/ Reclassifications  -    1.53  2.52  4.05  Amortisation as at March 31, 2023  23.64  514.15  397.07  934.86  Net Block as at March 31, 2023  1,433.38  1,311.19  94.15  2,838.72  (J in crore) Particulars Total Balance as at beginning of the year  2,242.72  Net expenditure during the year  403.45  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (431.71) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  296.74   2,511.20  Provision for Loss  (469.79) Balance as at end of the year  2,041.41  (J in crore) Particulars Total Balance as at beginning of the year  2,134.63  Net expenditure during the year  598.01  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (332.30) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  (157.62)  2,242.72  Provision for Loss  (453.16) Balance as at end of the year  1,789.56  NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT Current Year Previous Year Intangible assets under development are mainly in the nature of Exploration & Production Blocks and Licences & Computer Software.
Amount above includes H 273.34 crore (2023:H 217.57 crore) towards Capital Expenditure (Net) relating to ongoing Oil & Gas Exploration  & Production activities Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 232 233  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars Amount of Intangible Assets under Development for a period of TotalLess than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  352.53  343.73  106.77  1,228.53  2,031.56  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  0.70  -    0.28  478.66  479.64  Total  353.23  343.73  107.05  1,707.19  2,511.20  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  379.54  104.99  192.49  1,086.76  1,763.78  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  -    0.28  11.35  467.31  478.94  Total  379.54  105.27  203.84  1,554.07  2,242.72  Completion Schedule of Intangible Assets under Development for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has  Exceeded its Original Plan (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in  Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress - Guwahati Refinery Expansion  15.01  - Barauni Refinery Expansion  151.60  - Acrylics / Oxo Alcohol Project at Dumad, Gujarat  226.92  - Petrochemical and Lube Integration Project at Gujarat  Refinery  207.77  - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat Refinery  10.32  - Ethanol production from PSA off gas at Panipat Refinery  (3G)  0.35  - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  144.57  - PBR Project at Panipat Refinery  66.38  - Panipat Refinery Expansion  -    383.32  - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project at Paradip Refinery  96.26  - Integrated Para Xylene (PX) and Purified Terephthalic  Acid (PTA) Project at Paradip Refinery  -    195.68  - BK-CBM-2001/1  30.86  - NK-CBM-2001/1  25.25  - Shakthi Gabon  173.72  - Others *  21.66  2.55  -    -    Total  697.55  880.95  -    173.72  ii) Projects temporarily suspended - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery  132.21  - Farsi, Iran  126.26  - Others *  -    -    -    221.16  Total  -    -    -    479.63  Ageing of Intangible Assets under Development NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (Contd..) NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (Contd..) * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Other Projects (J in crore) Particulars To be completed in  Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Previous Year i)  Projects in Progress - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  48.53  - Acrylics/ OXO Alcohol project at Gujarat Refinery  189.18  - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  45.96  - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat  97.11  - Catalytic Dewaxing Unit  43.10  - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat  10.14  - BK-CBM-2001/1  30.86  - NK-CBM-2001/1  25.25  - Shakthi Gabon  161.44  - Others *  5.50  61.74  -    -    Total  470.38  61.74  25.25  161.44  ii) Projects temporarily suspended - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery  -    -    132.21  - Farsi, Iran  126.26  - Others *  -    -    -    220.46  Total  -    -    -    478.93  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 234 235  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS March 31,2024 March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Particulars Investment Currency Number Face Value Investment  Value   (J in crore)  (1) Fair Value Adjustment/ Impairment Loss  (J in crore)  (2) Carrying Value  (J in crore)  (1+2) Number Face Value Investment  Value   (J in crore)   (1) Fair Value Adjustment/ Impairment Loss   (J in crore)  (2) Carrying Value  (J in crore)   (1+2) NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS : I Equity Shares A In Subsidiaries (At Cost):  Quoted:  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 77265200 10  509.33  -    509.33 77265200 10  509.33  -    509.33   Lanka IOC PLC Sri Lankan Rupees 400000005 10  194.13  -    194.13 400000005 10  194.13  -    194.13   (Quoted in Colombo Stock Exchange, SriLanka)  Unquoted  Indian Oil Mauritius Limited Mauritian Rupees 4882043 100  75.67  -    75.67 4882043 100  75.67  -    75.67   IOC Middle East FZE Arab Emirates Dirham 3000000 1  2.30  -    2.30 5 500000  2.30  -    2.30   IOC Sweden AB Euro 5256111 2.28  388.47  (333.47)  55.00 5256111 2.28  388.47  (333.47)  55.00   IOCL (USA) Inc. USD 5763538921 0.01  336.32  (154.54)  181.78 5763538921 0.01  336.32  (154.54)  181.78   IndOil Global B.V. Canadian Dollars 1131302435 1  7,840.35  (1,909.51)  5,930.84 1131302435 1  7,840.35  (1,909.51)  5,930.84   IOCL Singapore PTE Ltd USD 1329991988 1  9,005.34  -    9,005.34 1329991988 1  9,005.34  -    9,005.34   IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited Indian Rupees 5000000 10  5.00  -    5.00  -    -    -    -    -     Sub-total: (I)(A) 18356.91 (2397.52) 15959.39 18351.91 (2397.52) 15954.39  B In Associates (At Cost):  Quoted:  Petronet LNG Limited Indian Rupees 187500000 10  98.75  -    98.75 187500000 10  98.75  -    98.75   Unquoted:  Avi-Oil India Private Limited Indian Rupees 4500000 10  4.50  -    4.50 4500000 10  4.50  -    4.50   Petronet India Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 18000000 0.10  0.18  -    0.18 18000000 0.10  0.18  -    0.18   Petronet VK Limited Indian Rupees 50000000 10  26.02  (26.00)  0.02 50000000 10  26.02  (26.00)  0.02   Sub-total: (I)(B) 129.45 (26.00) 103.45 129.45 (26.00) 103.45  C In Joint Ventures (At Cost):  Unquoted:  IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited Indian Rupees 500972175 10  739.96  -    739.96 494828289 10  723.98  -    723.98   Lubrizol India Private Limited Indian Rupees 499200 100  61.71  -    61.71 499200 100  61.71  -    61.71   Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited Indian Rupees 134000000 10  134.00  -    134.00 134000000 10  134.00  -    134.00   Petronet CI Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 3744000 10  3.83  (3.83)  -   3744000 10  3.83  (3.83)  -     Green Gas Limited  Indian Rupees 25287250 10  51.09  -    51.09 23047250 10  23.09  -    23.09   IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited Indian Rupees 25950000 10  73.28  -    73.28 25950000 10  73.28  -    73.28   Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Naira 2500000 1  0.05  (0.05)  -   2500000 1  0.05  (0.05)  -     Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited Indian Rupees 60680000 10  60.68  -    60.68 60680000 10  60.68  -    60.68   Indian Synthetic Rubbers Private Limited Indian Rupees 222861375 10  222.86  -    222.86 222861375 10  222.86  -    222.86   NPCIL-IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 260000 10  0.26  -    0.26 260000 10  0.26  -    0.26   GSPL India Gasnet Limited Indian Rupees 574925012 10  574.93  -    574.93 491925030 10  491.93  -    491.93   GSPL India Transco Limited Indian Rupees 157820000 10  157.82  (33.29)  124.53 157820000 10  157.82  (33.29)  124.53   Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited Indian Rupees 658865000 10  658.87  -    658.87 653365000 10  653.37  -    653.37   Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited Indian Rupees 52918750 10  52.92  -    52.92 52918750 10  52.92  -    52.92   Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited Indian Rupees 560640000 10  560.64  -    560.64 550000000 10  550.00  -    550.00   IndianOil LNG Private Limiteda Indian Rupees 4500 10  -    -    -   4500 10  -    -    -     Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited Indian Rupees 2642985000 10  2,642.99  -    2,642.99 2295955000 10  2,295.96  -    2,295.96   Ratnagiri Refineries & Petrochemicals Limited Indian Rupees 100000000 10  100.00  -    100.00 100000000 10  100.00  -    100.00   Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited Indian Rupees 222360000 10  228.96  -    228.96 198000000 10  201.00  -    201.00   IHB Limited Indian Rupees 1529000000 10  1,529.00  -    1,529.00 1529000000 10  1,529.00  -    1,529.00   IndianOil Total Private Limited Indian Rupees 30000000 10  30.00  -    30.00 22500000 10  22.50  -    22.50   IOC Phinergy Private Limited Indian Rupees 4187500 10  4.19  -    4.19 1717500 10  1.72  -    1.72   Paradeep Plastic Park Limited Indian Rupees 32720000 10  32.72  -    32.72 32720000 10  32.72  -    32.72   Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited Indian Rupees 12500 10  0.01  -    0.01  -    -    -    -    -     IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited Indian Rupees 50000 10  0.05  -    0.05  -    -    -    -    -     GH4India Private Limited Indian Rupees 1000000 10  1.00  -    1.00  -    -    -    -    -     Sub-total: (I)(C) 7921.82 (37.17) 7884.65 7392.68 (37.17) 7355.51  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 236 237  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd..) March 31,2024 March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Particulars Investment Currency Number Face Value Investment  Value   (J in crore)  (1) Fair Value Adjustment/ Impairment Loss  (J in crore)  (2) Fair Value  (J in crore)  (1+2) Number Face Value Investment  Value   (J in crore)   (1) Fair Value Adjustment/ Impairment Loss   (J in crore)  (2) Fair Value  (J in crore)   (1+2) D In Others (Designated at FVTOCI)  Quoted:  Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 986885142 5  1,780.12  24,673.33  26,453.45 986885142 5  1,780.12  13,126.78  14,906.90   GAIL (India) Limited Indian Rupees 163358190 10  122.52  2,835.08  2,957.60 163358190 10  122.52  1,595.19  1,717.71   Oil India Limited Indian Rupees 53501100 10  1,123.52  2,087.88  3,211.40 53501100 10  1,123.52  222.83  1,346.35   Unquoted:  International Cooperative Petroleum Association, New York USD 350 100  0.02  -    0.02 350 100  0.02  -    0.02   Haldia Petrochemical Limited Indian Rupees 150000000 10  150.00  511.20  661.20 150000000 10  150.00  818.85  968.85   Indian Gas Exchange Limited Indian Rupees 3693750 10  3.69  9.67  13.36 3693750 10  3.69  8.81  12.50   Vasitars Private Limited Indian Rupees 1470 10  0.77  -    0.77 1470 10  0.77  -    0.77   Vadodara Enviro Channel Limitedb Indian Rupees 7151 10  -    -    -   7151 10  -    -    -     Shama Forge Co. Limitedc (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 100000 10  -    -    -   100000 10  -    -    -     In Consumer Cooperative Societies:  Barauni D Indian Rupees 250 10  -    -    -   250 10  -    -    -     Guwahati e Indian Rupees 750 10  -    -    -   750 10  -    -    -     Mathura f Indian Rupees 200 10  -    -    -   200 10  -    -    -     Haldia g Indian Rupees 2190 10  -    -    -   2190 10  -    -    -     In Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer Stores Limited, Delhih Indian Rupees 375 10  -    -    -   375 10  -    -    -     Sub-total: (I)(D) 3180.64 30117.16 33297.80 3180.64 15772.46 18953.10   Sub-total: (I) 29588.82 27656.47 57245.29 29054.68 13311.77 42366.45  II Share Warrants (Designated at FVTOCI)  In Joint Ventures  Unquoted:  IndianOil LNG Private Limited (Refer Note C.4) Indian Rupees 3665000000 9.99  3,661.34  157.60  3,818.94  -    -    -    -    -     Sub-total: (II) 3661.34  157.60 3818.94  III Preference Shares (At FVTPL) A In Subsidiary Companies:  Unquoted:  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 500000000 10  500.00  (6.95)  493.05 500000000 10  500.00  (42.99)  457.01   6.65% Cum.
Redeemable Non Convertible Preference  Shares B In Others  Unquoted:  Shama Forge Co. Limitedi (under liquidation)  Indian Rupees 5000 100  -    -    -   5000 100  -    -    -     9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares  Sub-total: (III) 500.00 (6.95) 493.05 500.00 (42.99) 457.01  IV Government Securities (At FVTOCI)  Quoted: (Refer Note C)  9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees  -    -    -    -    -   206000 10000  234.70  (15.51)  219.19   7.35% Govt.Stock 2024 Indian Rupees  -    -    -    -    -   695000 10000  704.04  5.52  709.56   Sub-total: (IV) 938.74 (9.99) 928.75  V Debentures or Bonds (At FVTPL )  Unquoted:  IndianOil LNG Private Limited Indian Rupees  -    -    -    -    -   36650 1000000  3,665.00  (59.64)  3,605.36   7.45% Fully and Compulsorily Convertible Debentures  Sub-total: (V) 3,665.00 (59.64) 3,665.00  Total Non Current Investments (I+II+III+IV+V)  33,750.16  27,807.12 61,557.28  34,158.42  13,199.15  47,357.57  CURRENT INVESTMENTS:  I Government Securities (At FVTOCI)  Quoted:  Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds   (Refer Note B) Indian Rupees 6729510 10000  6,729.51  39.41  6,768.92 8183020 10000  8,183.02  112.46  8,295.48   9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 1960000 10000  2,242.91  (190.46)  2,052.45 1754000 10000  2,008.21  (141.99)  1,866.22   7.35% Govt.Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 695000 10000  704.04  5.49  709.53  -    -    -    -    -     Total Current Investments  9,676.46 (145.56)  9,530.90  10,191.23 (29.53)  10,161.70  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 238 239  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Non-Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Aggregate carrying value of quoted investments  33,424.66  19,701.92  9,530.90  10,161.70  Aggregate market value of quoted investments  45,738.17  26,750.70  9,530.90  10,161.70  Aggregate carrying value of unquoted investments  28,132.62  27,655.65  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments  2,460.69  2,460.69  (Amount in J) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 a IndianOil LNG Private Limited  45,000  45,000  b Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited  10  10  c Shama Forge Co. Limited  100  100  d Barauni Consumer Cooperative Societies  2,500  2,500  e Guwahati Consumer Cooperative Societies  2,500  2,500  f Mathura Consumer Cooperative Societies  2,000  2,000  g Haldia Consumer Cooperative Societies  16,630  16,630  h Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer Stores Limited, Delhi  3,750  3,750  i Shama Forge Co. Limited  100  100  (J in crore)  March 31,2024  Nature of Bond No.
of Bonds Face Value   Amount  Investment Value   Amount  Carrying Value   Amount  Current investment: 8.20% GOI Special Bonds 2024 3105060  3,105.06  3,105.06  3,128.31  7.95% GOI Special Bonds 2025 457250  457.25  457.25  466.46  8.00% GOI Special Bonds 2026 189270  189.27  189.27  191.68  6.90% GOI Special Bonds 2026 2977930  2,977.93  2,977.93  2,982.47  Total Current Investments 6729510  6,729.51  6,729.51  6,768.92  (J in crore) Name of the Entity Number of shares  Amount  Unquoted Investment: Investment in Equity Shares: IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited 6143886 15.98 Green Gas Limited 2240000 28.00 GSPL India Gasnet Limited 82999982 83.00 Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited 5500000 5.50 Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Limited 10640000 10.64 Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited 347030000 347.03 Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited 24360000 24.36 IndianOil Total Private Limited 7500000 7.50 IOC Phinergy Private Limited 2470000 2.47 Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited 12500 0.01 IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited 50000 0.05 IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited 5000000 5.00 GH4India Private Limited 1000000 1.00 Deemed Investment (in lieu of financial guarantee given): Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited  -    3.60  Share Warrant IndianOil LNG Private Limited 3665000000  3,661.34  Followings are not reflected above due to rounding off:- Note: A During the year New investments as well as additional investments were made, as per details below : Note: B Investment in Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds consists of: NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Loans  A To Related Parties  Secured, Considered Good  0.15  0.02  0.02  0.01   Unsecured, Considered Good  B  0.10  -    15.48  15.40   Credit Impaired  110.90  110.90  -    -     111.15  110.92  15.50  15.41   Less : Allowance for Doubtful Loans  110.90  110.90  -    -     0.25  0.02  15.50  15.41  To Others  Secured, Considered Good  1,277.51  1,006.52  149.76  123.16   Unsecured, Considered Good  1,367.26  1,365.73  342.79  268.01   Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  200.24  105.25  46.70  22.89   Credit Impaired  630.60  383.71  233.49  201.59   3,475.61  2,861.21  772.74  615.65   Less: Allowance for Doubtful Loans C  1,011.14  686.40  317.56  249.19   2,464.47  2,174.81  455.18  366.46  Total  2,464.72  2,174.83  470.68  381.87  A.
Includes:  1.
Due from Directors  0.25  0.02  0.04  0.04   2.
Due from Other Officers  6.56  5.05  2.98  2.36  B.
Includes Loan to ‘Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited’ valued at  fair value through Profit or Loss which is valued at NIL  (2023: NIL) C. Includes provision as per Expected Credit Loss model and  applying experience factor on loans considered good and  those which have significant increase in Credit Risk   380.54  302.69  84.07  47.60  Note: C - Other Disclosures 1 During the year, 7.35% Govt Stock of investment value of H 704.04 crore and 9.15% Govt Stock of investment value of H 234.70  crore were reclassified from Non Current Investment to Current Investment.
2 Following Government Securities pledged in favour of Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) for Loans through Tri-party Repo  Segment (TREPS) of CCIL.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Face Value Investment  Value Carrying  Value Face Value Investment  Value Carrying  Value 9.15% Govt.
Stock 2024  6.00  6.84  6.28  206.00  234.70  219.19  7.35% Govt.
Stock 2024  -    -    -    695.00  704.04  709.56  3 Oil Marketing Companies 8.20% GOI Special Bonds 2024 of investment value H 3,000 crore (Carrying value H 3,022.46 crore) and  6.90% GOI Special Bonds 2026 of investment value H 2,525 crore (Carrying value H 2,528.85 crore) has been used as collateral  against availment of overnight borrowings through CROMS platform of CCIL.
4 During the year, the Compulsorily Convertible Debentures in Indian Oil LNG Private Limited amounting to H 3,665 crore were  converted into Optionally Convertible Debentures and the company exercised its option to redeem the same.
The company has  subscribed to 366.50 crore share warrants of Indian Oil LNG Private Limited at a price of H 3,661.34 crore (H 9.99 per warrant).
Each  warrant entitles the holder to subscribe to and be allotted 1 share (face value H 10), at a predetermined exercise price of H 0.01 per  warrant, within the exercise period of 15 years.
5 All the investments are fully paid up.
NOTE - 5: LOANS (At amortised cost unless otherwise stated) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 240 241  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 6: OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (Unsecured, Considered Good at amortised cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Security Deposits To Related Parties       Unsecured, Considered Good  -    -    4.12  4.10  To Others  Secured, Considered Good  0.11  0.11  -    -     Unsecured, Considered Good  303.99  230.24  50.63  47.47   Credit Impaired  -    -    1.39  1.36   304.10  230.35  56.14  52.93  Less: Allowance for Doubtful Deposits  -    -    1.39  1.36   304.10  230.35  54.75  51.57  Advances for Investments    A  In Subsidiary Companies  105.56  -     In Joint Ventures  86.49  10.65   192.05  10.65  Amount Recoverable from Central/ State Government  -    -    1,779.23  817.20  Finance Lease Receivables  -    0.01  -    0.73  Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -    -    2.98  218.12  Advance to Employee Benefits Trusts/Funds  -    -    279.28  543.04  Bank Deposits (with original  maturity of more than 12 months)   B  1.58  1.74  0.84  0.63  Receivables on Agency Sales (Related Party)  -    -    2,866.24  2,202.38  Claims Recoverable:  From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  -    -    54.52  54.52   Credit Impaired  -    -    4.24  4.24   -    -    58.76  58.76  From Others  Unsecured, Considered Good  -    -    219.60  400.00   Credit Impaired  -    -    223.26  189.63   -    -    442.86  589.63  Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -    -    227.50  193.87   -    -    274.12  454.52  Others: Unsecured, Considered Good  2.26  9.23  244.20  206.47  Credit Impaired  -    -    25.73  17.55   2.26  9.23  269.93  224.02  Less: Allowance for Doubtful Asset  -    -    25.73  17.55   2.26  9.23  244.20  206.47  Total  499.99  251.98  5,501.64  4,494.66  (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Income Tax/Current Tax Asset/ (Liability) - Net  Advance payments for Current Tax  9,240.93  14,335.91  10,740.86  10.61   Less : Provisions  7,441.83  12,488.95  11,647.49  -    Income/Current Tax Asset/ (Liability) - Net  1,799.10  1,846.96  (906.63)  10.61  Includes amount relating to Fringe Benefit Tax  3.39  3.39  2.04  2.04  A.
Represents equity share application money pending allotment.
The allotment of equity shares is expected to be made as per  Companies Act, 2013 and other laws as applicable.
B.
Earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities/ provided as Security to participate in Tender.
NOTE - 7: INCOME TAX/ CURRENT TAX ASSET/ (LIABILITY) - NET (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Advances for Capital Expenditure To Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  10.29  -     10.29  -    To Others  Secured, Considered Good  3.30  8.38   Unsecured, Considered Good  2,299.06  1,623.36   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  9.32  9.32   2,311.68  1,641.06  Less: Provision for Doubtful Advances  9.32  9.32   2,312.65  1,631.74  Advances Recoverable From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  1,200.88  1,231.80  28.87  22.55  From Others  Unsecured, Considered Good  279.37  176.07  2,949.47  2,873.23   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -    -    4.87  4.88   279.37  176.07  2,954.34  2,878.11  Less: Provision for Doubtful Advances  -    -    4.87  4.88   279.37  176.07  2,949.47  2,873.23   1,480.25  1,407.87  2,978.34  2,895.78  Claims Recoverable: A From Others  Unsecured, Considered Good  -    -    489.35  516.15   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -    -    61.90  15.97   -    -    551.25  532.12   Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -    -    61.90  15.97   -    -    489.35  516.15  Balance/ Deposits with Government Authorities Unsecured, Considered Good  -    -    584.34  620.44  Gold/ Other Precious Metals  -    -    92.56  84.93  Less: Provision for Diminution in value  -    -    15.74  9.68   -    -    76.82  75.25  Deferred Expenses (Refer Note - 39)  1,072.78  969.73  108.70  96.63  Prepaid Rentals  23.55  35.64  74.08  79.99  Pre-Spent Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses   (Refer Note - 45)  -    -    35.29  6.48  Total  4,889.23  4,044.98  4,346.92  4,290.72  A.
Includes:  1.
GST/ Customs/ Excise Duty/ DEPB/ Duty Drawback  Claims which are in the process of being claimed with the  Department.
-    -    53.65  55.15   2.
Claims recoverable from Customs Authorities pending for  final assessment/ settlement.
-    -    76.65  13.01  NOTE - 8: OTHER ASSETS (NON FINANCIAL) (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated) NOTE - 9: INVENTORIES (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 In Hand : Raw Materials  29,390.82  27,792.70  Work-in-progress  9,999.21  10,052.40  Finished Products  41,340.19  39,990.69  Stock in Trade  8,116.15  9,734.23  Stores, Spares etc.
6,106.84  5,571.20  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 242 243  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Less : Provision for Losses  277.42  233.77   5,829.42  5,337.43  Barrels and Tins  90.22  109.81   94,766.01  93,017.26  In Transit : Raw Materials  13,815.17  15,401.13  Finished Products  1,182.18  1,298.75  Stock in Trade  2,462.98  3,870.30  Stores, Spares etc.
281.15  265.97   17,741.48  20,836.15  Total  1,12,507.49  1,13,853.41  Stock in Hand includes stock lying with others- Raw Materials  9.07  8.67  Finished Products  2,822.93  2,994.62  Stock in Trade  1,746.70  1,466.25  Stores, Spares etc.
13.20  10.44  Barrels and Tins  0.55  0.72  Amount of write down of inventories carried at NRV and recognised as Expense.
1,005.17  248.21  Amount of reversal of write down of inventories recognised as income.
1.93  -    Valuation of inventories are done as per point no.
7 of material accounting policies  (Note-1).
For hypothecation details refer Note-21.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  661.70  593.10   Credit Impaired  9.69  9.55   671.39  602.65  From Others  Secured Considered Good  0.13  12.45   Unsecured, Considered Good  12,251.19  14,908.13   Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  -    506.74   Credit Impaired  192.87  140.34   12,444.19  15,567.66  Total  13,115.58  16,170.31  Less : Allowance for Doubtful Debts  A  336.17  502.93  Total  12,779.41  15,667.38  A.
Includes provision as per Expected Credit Loss method in line with accounting policy  on good and those which have significant increase in credit risk   133.61  353.04  NOTE - 9: INVENTORIES (Contd..) NOTE - 10: TRADE RECEIVABLES (At amortised cost) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Bank Balances with Scheduled Banks : In Current Account  449.10  354.15  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  -    0.47   449.10  354.62  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  12.91  2.74  Cheques, Drafts in hand  1.31  5.41  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.96  0.55  Total  464.28  363.32  NOTE - 11: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment TotalLess than  6 months 6 months-1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than  3 years Current Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables  – considered good  30.48  8,541.94  3,458.89  191.14  185.94  155.90  64.50 12,628.79  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables  – credit impaired  -    -    -    55.56  0.35  0.31  58.53  114.75  iii) Disputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  4.62  12.77  16.21  20.37  38.06  44.65  147.55  284.23  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables –  credit impaired  -    -    -    -    0.15  0.20  87.46  87.81  Total  35.10  8,554.71  3,475.10  267.07  224.50  201.06  358.04 13,115.58  Ageing of Trade Receivables NOTE - 10: TRADE RECEIVABLES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Fixed Deposits  A  14.12  12.98  Earmarked Balances  B  353.19  396.10  Other Bank Balances  C  0.61  0.61  Total  367.92  409.69  A) Includes Fixed Deposits earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities  14.12  12.98  B) Pertains to  - Unpaid Dividend  38.41  42.60   - Fractional Share Warrants  0.03  0.03   - Amount received from PM CARES Fund for procurement of Liquid Oxygen  Equipment (pending adjustment of claim amounting to H 41.33 crore (2023:  H 41.50 crore) shown as claims recoverable in Note 6)  41.33  98.62   - Grant received from Ministry of Heavy Industries for establishing EVCS at ROs  (Including Interest of H 16.61 crore (2023: H 0.05 crore) (net of TDS) earned  payable to government)  271.41  254.85   - Amount received from transporter vendor payable only as per court's directive  2.00  -    C) There exists restrictions on repatriation/ utilisation of these balances.
NOTE - 12: BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN ABOVE (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment TotalLess than  6 months 6 months-1  year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than  3 years Previous Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables  – considered good  163.47  6,838.36  6,854.74  809.99  460.38  86.33  49.72  15,262.99  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables  – which have significant  increase in credit risk  -    506.74  -    -    -    -    -    506.74  iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables  – credit impaired  -    -    -    -    0.19  0.59  58.52  59.30  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  2.96  16.44  14.21  21.33  45.64  41.57  108.54  250.69  v) Disputed Trade Receivables –  credit impaired  -    -    -    -    0.02  0.43  90.14  90.59  Total  166.43  7,361.54  6,868.95  831.32  506.23  128.92  306.92 16,170.31  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 244 245  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars Note March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Freehold land A 0.64 0.64 Building B 0.07 0.07 Plant and Equipment 57.69 44.46 Office Equipment 0.19 0.08 Transport Equipment 0.10 0.31 Total 58.69 45.56 Disposal Group: Narimanam Marketing Terminal C Freehold land 4.96 4.96 Building 12.97 12.97 Plant and Equipment 52.00 52.00 Office Equipment 0.05 0.05 Total 69.98 69.98 Total Asset held for sale 128.67 115.54 NOTE-13: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE A.
The Company has surplus land at various locations such as LPG Plant , Depots and ROs etc.
which is under the process of  disposal.
The management intends to sell the land.
No impairment was recognised on reclassification of land as held for sale as  the Company expects that the fair value (estimated based on the recent market prices of similar properties in similar locations)  less costs to sell is higher than the carrying amount.
B.
Includes non-current assets retired from active use earlier used in various segments and held for disposal through tendering  process within a year.
During the year the company has reclassified Assets Held for sale amounting to H  0.07 crore (2023: H  0.04 crore) as Property, Plant  and Equipment/ Other Assets based on the plan for disposal of assets.
During the year, the company has recognized impairment loss of H  18.30 crore (2023: H  10.28 crore) on write-down of asset to fair  value less costs to sell and the same has been shown in Provision/loss on Other Assets sold or written off under 'Other Expenses'  in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
C. Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (CBRPL) has been incorporated on 6 th January 2023 as a Joint Venture  of Indian Oil and Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited each holding 25% equity and balance by seed equity investors, for  construction of new 9 MMTPA refinery at Cauvery Basin Nagapattinam.
The JV would be operational upon receipt of approval  by Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for equity investment in the CBR project by CPCL.
The transfer of assets of  the Company's terminal will be taken up thereafter.
Accordingly, the land and other facilities held by the Company at Narimanam  Marketing Terminal which are to be transferred to the new Joint Venture, are classified under Disposal Group.
NOTE - 14: EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL NOTE - 14: EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Authorized: 30,00,00,00,000 (2023: 15,00,00,00,000) Equity Shares of H 10 each  30,000.00  15,000.00  Issued Subscribed and Paid Up: 14,12,12,38,383 (2023: 14,12,12,38,383)  14,121.24  14,121.24  Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up Less: Equity Shares held under IOC Shares Trust  349.68  349.68  34,96,77,684 (2023: 34,96,77,684) Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up Total  13,771.56  13,771.56  A. Reconciliation of No.
of Equity Shares  Opening Balance  14,12,12,38,383  9,41,41,58,922   Shares Issued (Bonus Shares)  -    4,70,70,79,461   Closing Balance  14,12,12,38,383  14,12,12,38,383  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Retained Earnings General Reserve: Opening Balance  98,893.26  1,02,478.89  Add: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (34.53)  (69.68) Add: Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,013.20  768.59  Less: Utilized for Issue of Bonus shares [including expenses (net of tax)] A  -    4,294.42  Add: Transfer from Items not reclassified to Profit or Loss  -    9.88  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  784.88  -     1,00,656.81  98,893.26  Surplus (Balance in Statement of Profit and Loss) Balance Brought Forward from Last Year's Account  4,916.46  -    Profit for the Year  39,618.84  8,241.82  Less: Appropriations  Interim Dividend [including expenses (net of tax)]  6,886.04  -     Final Dividend [including expenses (net of tax)]  4,131.58  3,305.36   Insurance Reserve (Net)  13.75  20.00   General Reserve  784.88  -     Balance carried forward to next year  32,719.05  4,916.46  Other Reserves Bond Redemption Reserve Opening Balance  1,013.20  1,781.79  Less: Transfer to General Reserve  1,013.20  768.59   -    1,013.20  B. Terms/ Rights attached to Equity Shares  The Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of H 10 each and is entitled to one vote per share.
In the event  of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Company in  proportion to the number of equity shares held.
IOC Shares Trust (Shareholder) has waived its right to receive the dividend w.e.f.
02.03.2020.
C. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares Name of Shareholder March 31, 2024  March 31, 2023 Number of  shares held Percentage of  Holding Number of  shares held  Percentage  of Holding  The President of India 7,27,21,99,767  51.50 7,27,21,99,767  51.50  Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited    2,00,58,22,884  14.20 2,00,58,22,884  14.20  Life Insurance Corporation of India Limited  97,77,88,060  6.92 1,18,92,20,484  8.42  Oil India Limited  72,83,85,744  5.16  72,83,85,744  5.16  Promoter Name At the beginning of the year At the end of the year  % Change  during the year Number of  shares % of total  shares Number of  shares % of total  shares The President of India 7,27,21,99,767  51.50 7,27,21,99,767  51.50  -    (a) Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s) without  payment being received in cash Nil (b) Aggregate number of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares - During FY 2022-23  (July 2022) in ratio of 1:2  4,70,70,79,461  D. For the period of preceding five years as on the Balance Sheet date, the: E. Details regarding shareholding of Promoters as at March 31, 2024 NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 246 247  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Capital Redemption Reserve Account : Opening Balance  -    297.65  Less: Utilised for issue of Bonus Shares  -    297.65   -    -    Capital Reserve  183.08  183.08  Insurance Reserve : Opening Balance  311.42  291.42  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  20.00  20.00  Less : Recoupment of uninsured fire loss  6.25  -     325.17  311.42  Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income : Fair value of Equity Instruments Opening Balance  15,540.77  16,699.89  Add: Fair value during the year  13,520.22  (1,149.24) Less: Transferred to General Reserve  -    9.88   29,060.99  15,540.77  Fair value of Debt Instruments Opening Balance  (10.88)  345.28  Add: Fair value during the year  6.98  (356.16)  (3.90)  (10.88) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve Opening Balance  138.67  27.32  Add: Gain/(Loss) during the year  (57.76)  135.80  Less: Transferred during the year  78.69  24.45   2.22  138.67  Total  1,62,943.42  1,20,985.98  NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (Contd..) A.
Adjusted for bonus shares pertaining to those held under IOC Shares Trust Nature and Purpose of Reserves A.
Retained Earnings  The retained earnings comprises of general reserve and surplus which is used from time to time to transfer profits by appropriations.
Retained earnings is free reserve of the Company and is used for the purposes like issuing bonus shares, buy back of shares and  other purposes (like declaring Dividend etc.)
as per the approval of Board of Directors.
It includes the re-measurement of defined  benefit plan as per actuarial valuations which will not be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in subsequent periods.
B.
Bond Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, a Bond Redemption Reserve is required to be created for all bonds/ debentures issued by the  company at a specified percentage.
This reserve is created out of appropriation of profits and is transferred back to general  reserve on repayment of bonds for which it is created.
In 2019, this requirement was dispensed with in case of public issue/ private  placement of debentures by listed companies to NBFCs, Housing Finance Companies and other listed companies.
C. Capital Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases its own shares out of free  reserves or securities premium.
A sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to capital redemption  reserve.
Utilization of this reserve is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
D. Capital Reserve  Capital Reserve was created through business combinations and shall be utilised as per the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
E. Insurance Reserve  Insurance Reserve is created by the company with the approval of Board of Directors to mitigate risk of loss of assets not insured  with external insurance agencies.
H 20.00 crore is appropriated by the company every year to this reserve.
The reserve is utilised to  mitigate actual losses by way of net appropriation in case any uninsured loss is incurred.
Amount of H 6.25 crore (2023: NIL) has  been utilised for recoupment of uninsured losses.
F .
Fair value of Equity Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations of investments made by the company in equity instruments  of other entities.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  and accumulated under this reserve.
This will not be reclassified to the statement of profit and loss in subsequent periods.
G. Fair value of Debt Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations in debt investments made by the company to earn  contractual cash flows and which are available for sale.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised  through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
This amount will be reclassified to the statement  of profit and loss in subsequent periods on disposal of respective instruments.
H. Cash Flow Hedge Reserve  The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value of  designated portion of hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes  are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
Such gains or losses will be  reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the hedged item occurs/ affects the statement of profit and loss.
NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (Contd..) NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At Amortised Cost) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current Current maturities* March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Unsecured Loans Bonds/ Debentures:  Foreign Currency Bonds  -    -    -    9,020.60   Rupee Bonds/ Debentures A  16,913.38  22,407.72  6,194.01  2,721.04   16,913.38  22,407.72  6,194.01  11,741.64  Term Loans: From Banks/ Financial Institutions  In Foreign Currency Loans B  18,518.10  25,029.61  6,146.12  2,532.08   In Rupees C  2,750.00  8,750.00  4,036.06  1,553.15  From Government  In Rupees D  2,351.95  1,970.30  -    -     23,620.05  35,749.91  10,182.18  4,085.23  Loans from related parties  In Foreign Currency E  834.10  -    0.58  -    Total Long-Term Borrowings  41,367.53  58,157.63  16,376.77  15,826.87  * Current maturities are carried to Note - 21: Borrowings - Current Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 248 249  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd..) Unsecured Loans: A.
Repayment Schedule of Rupee Bonds/ Debentures Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of Allotment Coupon Rate Date of Redemption 1 Indian Oil 2032 (Series XXIII) 25000  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 17 June 2022 7.79% p.a.
payable  annually on 17 June 9 years, 9 months & 26 days  from the deemed date of  allotment, i.e., 12 April 2032 2 Indian Oil 2029 (Series XIV) 30000  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 22 October 2019 7.41% p.a.
payable  annually on 22 October 10 years from the deemed  date of allotment i.e., 22  October 2029.
3 Indian Oil 2027 (Series XXV) 25000  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 25 November 2022 7.44% p.a.
payable  annually on 25 November 5 years from the deemed  date of allotment i.e., 25  November 2027 4 Indian Oil 2027 (Series XXIV) 25000  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 06 September 2022 7.14% p.a.
payable  annually on 6 September 5 years from the deemed  date of allotment i.e., 6  September 2027 5 Indian Oil 2027 (Series XXI) 15000  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 18 February 2022 6.14% p.a.
payable  annually on 18 February 5 years from the deemed  date of allotment i.e., 18  February 2027 6 Indian Oil 2026 (Series XX) 12902  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 25 January 2021 5.60% p.a.
payable  annually on 25 January 4 years, 11 months & 29 days  from the deemed date of  allotment i.e., 23 January 2026.
7 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XIX) 20000  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 20 October 2020 5.50% p.a.
payable  annually on 20 October 5 years from the deemed  date of allotment i.e., 20  October 2025.
8 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVIII) 16250  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 03 August 2020 5.40% p.a.
payable  annually on 03 August 4 years, 8 months & 8 days  from the deemed date of  allotment i.e., 11 April 2025.
9 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVI) 29950  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 06 March 2020 6.39% p.a.
payable  annually on 6 March 5 years from the deemed date  of allotment i.e., 6 March 2025.
10 Indian Oil 2024 (Series XXII) 25000  debenture of Face Value H 10,00,000 each 21 April 2022 5.84% p.a.
payable  annually on 21 April 1 year, 11 months & 29 days  from the deemed date of  allotment i.e., 19 April 2024 Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 1 USD 100 Million Term Loan 12 March 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years & 3 months from  the date of drawal 2 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI 07 April 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of  drawal 3 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI - GS 14 May 2021 4 USD 400 Million Syndication loan 30 July 2021 5 USD 125 Million Term Loan from BOB 03 November 2021 6 USD 125 Million Term Loan from BOB 01 December 2021 7 USD 330 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date  of drawal 8 USD 300 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 4 years from the date  of drawal 9 USD 250 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of  drawal 10 USD 220 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years & 5 months from  the date of drawal 11 USD 300 Million Syndication Loan from BOB NY 30 March 2022 Payable immediately after 2 years & 6 months from  the date of drawal 12 USD 300 Million SBI HK 29 September 2022 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date of  drawal13 USD 300 Million Syndication Loan 13 October 2022 14 USD 3 Million Green loan from SBI Singapore 07 March 2024 B.
Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Foreign Currency Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 1 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 30 June 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal2 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 22 July 2021 3 HDFC H 250 crore Term Loan 30 September 2021 4 PNB H 250 crore Term Loan 30 September 2021 Payable immediately after 35 months from drawal5 PNB H 750 crore Term Loan 06 November 2021 6 HDFC H 1,250 crore Term Loan 31 December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal7 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 31 March 2022 8 EXIM Bank H 750 crore Term Loan 30 September 2022 Payable immediately after 7 years from the date of drawal 9 HDFC H 1,000 crore Term Loan 06 February 2023 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal10 HDFC H 1,000 crore Term Loan 31 March 2023 Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment 1 USD 100 Million ECB Loan From IGCMIL 28 March 2024 Payable immediately after 18 months from the date of drawal NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd..) C. Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Rupees D. Repayment Schedule of Unsecured Interest Free Loans from Govt of Odisha  Interest free loan given by Odisha government for 15 years is disbursed in quarterly instalment of H 175 crore starting from 1 April  2016 repayable after 15 years.
Total loan disbursed till now is H 5,600 crore which is repayable after 15 years from the quarter for  which the same is given i.e., in quarterly instalments starting from last week of June 2031 onwards.
This loan being interest free  loan is accounted at fair value and accordingly accounting for government grant is done.
E. Repayment Schedule of Loans from related parties in Foreign Currency NOTE - 17: OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (At Amortised Cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Liability for Capital Expenditure  32.10  -    10,201.64  8,063.69  Liability to Trusts and Other Funds  -    -    21.31  182.39  Employee Liabilities  -    -    2,450.11  1,625.48  Liability for Purchases on Agency Basis  -    -    5,956.80  4,529.13  Unpaid Dividend  -    -    38.41  42.60  Unpaid Matured Deposits  -    -    0.01  0.01  Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -    -    361.08  235.97  Security Deposits A  161.33  122.74  35,190.82  33,325.46  Others  39.68  38.04  1,419.88  1,284.43  Total  233.11  160.78  55,640.06  49,289.16  A. LPG Deposits classified as current in line with industry  practice and includes:  1.
Deposit received towards LPG connection issued  under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna (PMUY), Rajiv  Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitrak Yojana (RGGLVY) and  various other schemes of State Government/Central  Government of India.
The deposits against these  schemes have been funded from CSR fund and/or by  State Government /Central Government of India  -    -    8,064.44  7,382.17   2.
Deposit free LPG connections funded by Chennai  Petroleum Corporation Limited.
-    -    0.52  0.52  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 250 251  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Provision for Employee Benefits  904.90  901.29  120.09  109.24  Decommissioning Liability A  12.73  9.14  4.26  2.60  Contingencies for probable obligations B  -    -    12,409.51  12,029.32  Less: Deposits  -    -    2,443.73  2,511.29   -    -    9,965.78  9,518.03  Total  917.63  910.43  10,090.13  9,629.87  NOTE - 18: PROVISIONS A. Decommissioning Liability (J in crore) Particulars Opening  Balance Addition   during   the year Utilization  during   the year Reversals   during   the year Unwinding of  discount and changes  in the discount rate Closing  Balance Decommissioning Liability - E&P Blocks  11.74  5.34  0.29  -   0.20  16.99  Previous Year Total  10.17  1.49  -    -   0.08  11.74  (J in crore) Particulars Opening   Balance Addition   during the year Utilization   during the year Reversals   during the year Closing  Balance* Excise  15.55  -    -    -   15.55 Sales Tax/ GST  2,152.66  222.70  28.66  -   2,346.70 Entry Tax  5,531.90  -    -    1.02 5,530.88 Others  4,329.21  442.43  133.89  121.37 4,516.38 Total  12,029.32  665.13  162.55  122.39 12,409.51 Previous Year Total  11,602.45  1,148.58  257.56  464.15 12,029.32 Addition includes Reversal includes  - capitalized  10.41  7.93  - included in Raw Material  86.67  -    - included in Finance Cost  330.25  -    - included in Other Expenses  237.80  9.88  - included in Other Comprehensive Income -  56.45  - included in Other Operating Revenues  -    48.13  B. Contingencies for Probable Obligation  * Expected timing of outflow is not ascertainable at this stage, the matters being under dispute/ contingent.
NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (i) The item wise details of Deferred Tax Liabilities (net): (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2023 Provided during the  year in the Statement  of Profit and Loss Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2024 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Plant, Property & Equipment  18,982.19  1,165.66  -    20,147.85  Fair Valuation of Equity Instruments  231.70  -    982.09  1,213.79  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  19,213.89  1,165.66  982.09  21,361.64  Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Trade Receivable, Loans and  Advance, Investments  1,299.08  104.38  -    1,403.46  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement Scheme  1.11  (0.04)  -    1.07  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,919.60  54.78  -    2,974.38  MTM on Hedging Instruments  (46.64)  -    45.89  (0.75) Fair Value of Debt Instruments  (10.61)  -    22.23  11.62  Unused Tax Loss (Long Term Capital Loss)  14.59  (2.52)  -    12.07  Others  423.76  (101.07)  -    322.69  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  4,600.89  55.53  68.12  4,724.54  Deferred Tax Liability (net) (A-B)  14,613.00  1,110.13  913.97  16,637.10  (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2022 Provided during the  year in the Statement  of Profit and Loss Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2023 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Plant, Property & Equipment  17,796.96  1,185.23  -    18,982.19  Fair Valuation of Equity Instruments  191.99  -    39.71  231.70  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  17,988.95  1,185.23  39.71  19,213.89  Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Trade Receivable, Loans and  Advance, Investments  1,211.04  88.04  -    1,299.08  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement Scheme  1.24  (0.13)  -    1.11  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,914.03  5.57  -    2,919.60  MTM on Hedging Instruments  (9.19)  -    (37.45)  (46.64) Fair Value of Debt Instruments  (118.57)  -    107.96  (10.61) Unused Tax Loss (Long Term Capital Loss)  17.52  -    (2.93)  14.59  Others  345.52  78.24  -    423.76  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  4,361.59  171.72  67.58  4,600.89  Deferred Tax Liability (net) (A-B)  13,627.36  1,013.51  (27.87)  14,613.00  NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (Contd..) (ii) Reconciliation between the average effective tax rate and the applicable tax rate is as below : Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 % (J in crore) % (J in crore) Profit Before Tax  52,344.21  9,698.14  Tax as per applicable Tax Rate  25.168  13,173.99  25.168  2,440.83  Tax effect of:  Income that are not taxable in determining taxable profit  (1.096)  (573.75)  (9.642)  (935.07)  Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit  0.272  142.61  1.122  108.77   Variation in allowance/ disallowances considered  (0.112)  (58.84)  (1.749)  (169.60)  Expenses/income related to prior years  0.086  44.84  0.142  13.75   Difference in tax due to income chargeable to tax at special  rates  (0.007)  (3.48)  (0.024)  (2.36) Average Effective Tax Rate/ Income Tax Expenses  24.311  12,725.37  15.017  1,456.32  NOTE - 20: OTHER LIABILITIES (NON FINANCIAL) (J in crore) Particulars  Non Current  Current  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Government Grants (refer Note - 46)  3,519.82  3,193.32  307.61  278.84  Statutory Liabilities  -    -    9,301.06  10,016.03  Advances from Customers  -    -    3,694.56  4,289.95  Others  A  529.13  501.34  1,381.16  2,034.60  Total  4,048.95  3,694.66  14,684.39  16,619.42  A.
Includes 1.
Includes liability towards Fleet Customers  1,098.02  1,170.77  2.
Non-refundable Deposits from Dealers pending amortisation  527.17  498.40  51.98  44.74  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 252 253  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 21: BORROWINGS - CURRENT (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Secured Loans Loans Repayable on Demand From Banks/ Financial Institutions  In Foreign Currency  2,502.30  1,643.50   In Rupee A   Working Capital Demand Loan  7,565.08  8,021.44    Cash Credit   -    489.63   10,067.38  10,154.57  From Others:  Loans through Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) B  5,554.54  1,522.67  Total Secured Loans  15,621.92  11,677.24  Unsecured Loans Loans Repayable on Demand From Banks/ Financial Institutions  In Foreign Currency  35,982.31  39,545.48   In Rupee  7,147.21  7,288.23   43,129.52  46,833.71  Current Maturities of Long-term Debt (Refer Note - 16)  16,376.77  15,826.87  Total Unsecured Loans  59,506.29  62,660.58  Total Short-Term Borrowings  75,128.21  74,337.82  A.
Against hypothecation by way of first pari passu charge on Inventories, Trade  Receivables, Outstanding monies, Receivables, Claims, Contracts, Engagements to  SBI and HDFC Banks.
The quarterly returns of current assets filed by the company  with banks are in agreement with the books of account.
B.
Against pledging/ collateral of the following to CCIL:  Government Securities including OMC GOI Special Bonds (Refer Note 4)  5,531.00  2,401.00  NOTE - 22: TRADE PAYABLES (At amortised cost) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises  1,410.52  1,019.67  Dues to Related Parties  1,440.18  1,369.84  Dues to Others A  48,650.26  46,286.92  Total  51,500.96  48,676.43  A.
Includes amount related to Micro and Small enterprises for which payment to be  made to financial institutions in pursuance of bills discounted by them  1.30  3.79  (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due date  of payment TotalLess than  1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than  3 years Current Year i) MSME*  452.50  310.78  647.04  0.03  -    -    1,410.35  ii) Others  3,356.66 37,821.54  7,867.21  390.30  11.94  17.85  49,465.50  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  0.01  0.16  -    -    -    -    0.17  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  285.22  111.35  25.95  4.99  52.00  145.43  624.94  Total  4,094.39 38,243.83  8,540.20  395.32  63.94  163.28 51,500.96  Previous Year i) MSME*  323.80  325.65  369.73  0.05  -    -    1,019.23  ii) Others  2,299.09  40,841.17  3,859.06  34.65  8.66  9.24  47,051.87  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  0.13  0.31  -    -    -    -    0.44  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  274.55  92.25  26.80  52.17  21.24  137.88  604.89  Total  2,897.57 41,259.38  4,255.59  86.87  29.90  147.12 48,676.43  Ageing of Trade Payables * Micro and Small Enterprises in line with Note - 22: Trade Payables Note: Generally, undisputed Trade Payables are settled on or before the due dates and amount outstanding beyond due dates are on  account of pending compliance of Contractual/ Statutory requirement by Vendors.
NOTE - 23: REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Sale of Products and crude (Net of  Discounts)  8,61,779.95  9,19,654.47  Sale of Services  219.75  336.63  Other Operating Revenues (Note "23.1")  4,246.08  3,955.99   8,66,245.78  9,23,947.09  Subsidy From Central/ State Governments  99.60  204.57  Grant from Government of India  -    10,801.00  Total  8,66,345.38  9,34,952.66  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Sale of Power and Water  484.04  479.84  Revenue from Construction Contracts  13.99  4.06  Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  328.11  82.34  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims and Stores written back  3.11  13.71  Provision for Contingencies written back  48.13  50.80  Operating Licence Fees  1,318.51  1,402.21  Income from Non Fuel Business  371.54  299.71  Commission and Discount Received  6.79  6.40  Sale of Scrap  323.62  342.99  Income from Finance Leases  0.25  0.10  Amortization of Capital Grants  31.23  27.03  Revenue Grants  288.63  269.63  Terminalling Charges                     47.90  52.82  Other Miscellaneous Income                       980.23  924.35  Total  4,246.08  3,955.99  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Interest on: A Financial items:  Deposits with Banks  1.02  1.87   Customers Outstanding  409.63  861.75   Oil Companies GOI SPL Bonds/ Other Investments  989.59  1,092.13   Other Financial Items  316.65  313.88  Total interest on Financial items  1,716.89  2,269.63  Non-Financial items  111.40  165.93   1,828.29  2,435.56  Dividend: B From Related Parties  1,082.39  2,168.51  From Other Companies  1,195.03  1,562.20   2,277.42  3,730.71  Profit on Assets sold or written off (Net)  38.26  -    Gain on Derivatives  84.09  -    Note: The MoPNG, vide letter dated 30.04.2020 had conveyed to Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) that where Market Determined  Price (MDP) of LPG cylinders is less than its Effective Cost to Customer (ECC), the OMCs will retain the difference in a separate buffer  account for future adjustment.
However, as on 31st March 2024, the company had a cumulative negative buffer of H 1,017 crore (2023: H  2,220 crore) as the retail selling price was less than MDP .
This amount is after adjustment of one-time grant of H 10,801 crore provided  by Government of India in FY 2022-23 against under-recoveries on sale of Domestic LPG during FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23 and  cumulative uncompensated cost of H 4,796 crore (2023: H 4,166 crore).
NOTE - 23.1: OTHER OPERATING REVENUES Particulars relating to Revenue Grants are given in Note - 46.
NOTE - 24: OTHER INCOME Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 254 255  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Opening Stock  43,193.82  40,361.92  Add: Purchases  3,90,304.75  4,43,525.02   4,33,498.57  4,83,886.94  Less: Closing Stock  43,205.99  43,193.83  Total  3,90,292.58  4,40,693.11  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Salaries, Wages, Bonus etc.
8,351.09  6,474.99  Contribution to Provident & Other Funds  1,257.39  911.71  Voluntary Retirement Compensation  2.02  1.54  Staff Welfare Expenses  1,469.06  1,381.61  Total  11,079.56  8,769.85  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Closing Stock Finished Products  42,522.37  41,289.44  Work-in-progress  9,999.21  10,052.40  Stock- in - trade  10,579.13  13,604.53   63,100.71  64,946.37  Less: Opening Stock Finished Products  41,289.44  37,845.40  Work-in-progress  10,052.40  9,746.98  Stock - in - Trade  13,604.52  10,289.38   64,946.36  57,881.76  Net Increase / (Decrease)  (1,845.65)  7,064.61  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Fair value Gain on Financial instruments classified as FVTPL  128.41  -    Gain on Remeasurement of PMUY Assets  336.61  -    Other Non Operating Income  87.74  68.95  Total  4,780.82  6,235.22  A 1.Includes Tax Deducted at Source  22.56  78.47  A 2.Includes interest received under section 244A of the Income Tax Act.
79.16  137.59  A 3.Include interest on:   Current Investments  968.02  724.22    Non-Current Investments  21.57  367.91  A 4.Total interest income (calculated using the effective interest method) for financial assets:   In relation to Financial Assets classified at amortised cost  727.30  1,177.50    In relation to Financial Assets classified at FVOCI  770.41  819.09    In relation to Financial Assets classified at FVTPL  219.18  273.04  B.1 Dividend Income on Non-Current Investments  2,277.42  3,730.71  B.2 Dividend on Non Current Investments Includes Dividend from Subsidiaries  749.90  1,859.85  B.3.
Includes Tax Deducted at Source  180.14  202.53  NOTE - 24: OTHER INCOME (Contd..) NOTE - 25: COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED NOTE - 26: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS, STOCK-IN-TRADE AND WORK-IN-PROGRESS NOTE - 27: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE A.
Excludes H 406.50 crore (2023: H 408.99 crore) included in capital work in progress (construction period expenses - Note-2.2) /  intangible assets under development (Note - 3.1) and H 21.79 crore (2023: H 12.26 crore) included in CSR expenses (Note - 29.1).
B.
Contribution to Provident & Other Funds includes NIL provision (2023: reversal of old provision of H 413.35 crore) towards Provident  Fund contribution for interest shortfall/ losses on portfolio basis.
C. Disclosure in compliance with Indian Accounting Standard-19 on “Employee Benefits” is given in Note - 35.
NOTE - 28: FINANCE COSTS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Interest Payments on Financial items:  Bank Borrowings  3,768.54  2,625.29   Bonds/Debentures  1,579.43  1,510.38   Lease Obligations  860.33  817.20   Unwinding of Discount  169.68  140.43   Other financial Items  189.32  541.44   6,567.30  5,634.74  Interest Payments on Non Financial items:  Unwinding of Discount  0.14  0.11   Others A  534.05  492.21   534.19  492.32  Other Borrowing Cost B  1.67  9.11  Applicable Net (Gain) / Loss on Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation  224.63  794.10  Total  7,327.79  6,930.27  A.
Mainly includes:  Interest expenses u/s 234B and 234C of Income Tax Act  105.37  9.95   Interest on Kandla Port Trust Rental Liability  167.12  285.07  B.
Mainly pertains to franking charges, service charges & other indirect expenses on  borrowings.
Total interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method) for financial  liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss  6,567.30  5,634.74  NOTE - 29: OTHER EXPENSES (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Consumption: a) Stores, Spares and Consumables  2,800.01  2,378.99  b)  Packages & Drum Sheets  573.73  563.48   3,373.74  2,942.47  Power & Fuel  35,315.51  36,472.24  Less : Fuel from own production  26,766.22  28,667.83   8,549.29  7,804.41  Throughput, Processing & Blending Fees, Royalty and Other Charges  1,511.10  1,351.74  Octroi, Other Levies and Irrecoverable taxes  2,466.62  2,510.99  Repairs and Maintenance i) Plant & Equipment  4,783.82  4,428.66  ii) Buildings  423.89  421.59  iii) Others  698.11  655.26   5,905.82  5,505.51  Freight, Transportation Charges and Demurrage  16,648.44  16,013.09  Office Administration, Selling and Other Expenses (Note "29.1")  9,395.30  15,240.55  Total  47,850.31  51,368.76  Less: Company's use of own Products and Crude  1,321.73  1,764.85  Total (Net)  46,528.58  49,603.91  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 256 257  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Rent  829.05  1,030.72  Insurance  431.33  385.16  Rates & Taxes  206.38  224.98  Donation  -    27.31  Payment to Auditors  As Auditors  3.02  2.80   For Taxation Matters  -    0.53   Other Services (for issuing other certificates etc.)
1.83  1.80   For reimbursement of expenses  0.45  0.26   5.30  5.39  Travelling & Conveyance  815.37  866.87  Communication Expenses  79.65  68.70  Printing & Stationery  44.07  45.88  Electricity & Water  468.30  448.37  Bank Charges  35.85  22.76  Advance, Claims, CWIP , etc.
written off  1.35  11.19  Provision/ Loss on Assets sold or written off (Net)  -    56.47  Technical Assistance Fees  105.65  94.63  Exchange Fluctuation (net)  1,180.96  6,701.13  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims, CWIP , Stores etc.
149.42  60.18  Security Force Expenses  1,052.69  960.92  Sales Promotion and Publicity A  1,433.97  1,221.71  Handling Expenses  868.34  743.92  Exploration & Production Cost  87.39  88.96  Loss on Derivatives  -    357.76  Fair value Loss on Financial instruments classified as FVTPL  -    340.59  Expenses on Construction Contracts  10.77  3.69  Expenses on CSR Activities (Refer Note - 45)  428.90  351.07  Training Expenses  119.92  111.76  Legal Expenses / Payment To Consultants  236.63  193.12  Notices and Announcement  19.70  11.99  Pollution Control Expenses  101.76  107.22  Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets  30.26  69.04  Miscellaneous Expenses  652.29  629.06  Total  9,395.30  15,240.55  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (46.14)  (93.11) Fair value of Equity Instruments  14,502.31  (1,106.60)  14,456.17  (1,199.71) Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  11.61  23.43  Fair value of Equity Instruments  (982.09)  (42.64)  (970.48)  (19.21) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  (15.25)  (464.12) Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  (182.34)  148.80   (197.59)  (315.32) Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  22.23  107.96  Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  45.89  (37.45)  68.12  70.51  Total  13,356.22  (1,463.73) NOTE - 29.1: OFFICE, ADMINISTRATION, SELLING AND OTHER EXPENSES A.
Includes H 646.29 crore (2023: H 623.63 crore) towards cost of free hot plates and first refill against LPG connections under PMUY  (Ujjwala 2.0/Ujjwala 2.0 extension) scheme.
NOTE - 30: OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME NOTE–31: DISTRIBUTIONS MADE AND PROPOSED (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Cash Dividends on Equity Shares declared: Final Dividend Final Dividend during the current year for previous financial year: H  3.00 per share   (2023: H  2.40 per share)  4,131.47  3,305.17 Interim Dividend  Total Interim Dividend for current financial year: H  5.00 per share (2023: Nil per share).
6,885.78  -    Total  11,017.25  3,305.17  Proposed Dividend on Equity Shares Final proposed Dividend for current financial year: H  7.00 per share (2023: H  3.00 per share)  9,640.09  4,131.47  Notes 1.
349677684 (2023: 349677684) Equity Shares held under IOC Shares Trust (Shareholder) of face value H  349.68 crore (2023: H  349.68  crore) have been netted off from paid up capital.
IOC Shares Trust have waived its right to receive the Dividend w.e.f.
March 02, 2020  and therefore Dividend on shares held by IOC Shares Trust was neither proposed in the last year nor during the current financial year.
2.
The Company has also incurred expenses on distribution of final dividend amounting to H  0.11 crore (2023: H  0.19 crore)  and on  distribution of Interim Dividend amounting to H  0.26 crore (2023: Nil) which have been debited to equity.
NOTE–32: EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders by the weighted  average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the profit/ (loss) and number of shares used in the basic and diluted EPS computations: Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Profit/ (Loss) attributable to Equity holders (H in crore)  39,618.84  8,241.82  Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share (Basic) 13771560699 13771560699 Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share (Diluted) 13771560699 13771560699 Earnings Per Share (Basic) (H) 28.77 5.98 Earnings Per Share (Diluted) (H) 28.77 5.98 Face value per share (H) 10.00 10.00 Note   349677684 (2023: 349677684) Equity Shares held under IOC Shares Trust of face value H 349.68 crore (2023: H 349.68 crore) have been  excluded from weighted average number of Equity Shares and EPS is computed accordingly.
NOTE–33A: INTEREST IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Name Country of  Incorporation/ Principal  place of business Equity Interest March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Subsidiaries Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited India 51.89% 51.89% IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited Mauritius 100.00% 100.00% Lanka IOC PLC Sri Lanka 75.12% 75.12% IOC Middle East FZE UAE 100.00% 100.00% IOC Sweden AB Sweden 100.00% 100.00% IOCL (USA) Inc. USA 100.00% 100.00% IndOil Global B.V. Netherlands 100.00% 100.00% IOCL Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100.00% 100.00% IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited$ India 100.00%  -  Associates Petronet LNG Limited India 12.50% 12.50% AVI-OIL India Private Limited India 25.00% 25.00% Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 258 259  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Name Country of  Incorporation/ Principal  place of business Equity Interest March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Petronet India Limited @ India 18.00% 18.00% Petronet VK Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Joint Ventures IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited India 50.00% 49.38% Lubrizol India Private Limited India 26.00% 26.00% Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Green Gas Limited India 49.99% 49.98% IndianOil Skytanking Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Nigeria 25.00% 25.00% Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility (Private) Limited India 37.00% 37.00% Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% NPCIL IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited India 26.00% 26.00% GSPL India Transco Limited India 26.00% 26.00% GSPL India Gasnet Limited India 26.00% 26.00% IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited India 25.00% 25.00% Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IndianOil LNG Private Limited India 45.00% 45.00% Petronet CI L TD @@ India 26.00% 26.00% IndianOil Ruchi Bio Fuels LLP # India 50.00% 50.00% Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited## India 29.67% 29.67% Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited India 20.00% 20.00% IHB Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IndianOil Total Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IOC Phinergy Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Paradeep Plastic Park Limited India 49.00% 49.00% Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited ### India 25.00% 25.00% IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited$$ India 50.00% - GH4India Private Limited* India 33.33% - NOTE–33A: INTEREST IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES (Contd..) $ IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited has been incorporated on 17th May 2023 as a wholly owned subsidiary with 100% equity.
@ Petronet India Limited is a JV amongst  Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under winding up and the matter is pending with  Official Liquidator since 2018.
@@ Petronet CI Ltd. is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator since 2006.
# IndianOil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the other JV partner viz.
Ruchi Soya  Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will exit the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time  frame for completing  exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with ROC was within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but the same is still pending  and IndianOil's name is appearing on ROC website as Partner in the said LLP .
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under Corporate Insolvency Resolution  Process and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited.
All necessary documents have been provided to M/s Ruchi for completing formalities relating to  exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP .
## The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 23.11.2022 has accorded in-principle approval for disinvestment of Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited.
Further,  MOP&NG vide letter dated 19th May, 2023 has accorded approval to IndianOil for disinvestment from HURL in line with DIPAM's OM dated 04.02.2021.
### Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (CBRPL) was incorporated on 6 th January 2023 as a Joint Venture of Indian Oil and Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited each holding 25% equity and balance by seed equity investors, for construction of new 9 MMTPA refinery at Cauvery Basin Nagapattinam.
The  Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 28.03.2024 has accorded in-principle approval for revision in capital structure of CBRPL with 75% equity from IndianOil and  25% equity from CPCL.
Upon IndianOil acquiring the balance 50% equity shares, CBRPL would become a Subsidiary of IndianOil.
$$ IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited has been incorporated on 2nd June 2023 as a Joint Venture of Indian Oil and NTPC Limited each holding 50% equity.
* GH4India Private Limited has been incorporated on 25th August 2023 as a Joint Venture of Indian Oil, Larsen & Toubro Limited and ReNEW Power Private Limited  each holding 33.33% equity.
Note: Ujjwala Plus Foundation is a joint venture of IOCL, BPCL and HPCL with fund contribution in the ratio of 50:25:25 which was incorporated  as a company limited by guarantee (without share capital) under section 8 of Companies Act, 2013.
The Board of IndianOil at its  meeting held on 14.03.2023 has accorded in-principle approval for closure of Ujjwala Plus Foundation.
NOTE–33B: INTEREST IN JOINT OPERATIONS Name Principal place   of Business Proportion of Ownership Interest March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 E&P Blocks 1) AA-ONN-2001/2 A India 20.00% 20.00% 2) GK-OSN-2009/1 B India 25.00% 25.00% 3) AAP-ON-94/1 India 29.03% 29.03% 4) AA/ONDSF/UMATARA/2018 India 90.00% 90.00% 5) BK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 6) NK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 7) FARSI BLOCK IRAN C Iran 40.00% 40.00% 8) SHAKTHI GABON Gabon 50.00% 50.00% 9) AREA 95-96 Libya 25.00% 25.00% 10) RJ-ONHP-2017/8 D India 30.00% 30.00% 11) AA-ONHP-2017/12 India 20.00% 20.00% 12) MB/OSDSF/WO5/2021 India 30.00% 30.00% 13) KG/OSDSF/CHANDRIKA/2021 India 30.00% 30.00% 14) AA-ONHP-2018/3 E India 30.00% 0.00% 15) AA-ONHP-2018/5 India 30.00% 0.00% 16) RJ-ONHP-2018/2 India 30.00% 0.00% 17) RJ-ONHP-2019/2 India 30.00% 0.00% 18) RJ-ONHP-2019/3 India 30.00% 0.00% A.
Exploration Licence expired on October 7, 2015.
Consortium has requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  Appraisal phase, however vide letter dated March 6, 2019, it was opined to carry out Exploration activity instead of Appraisal work.
Accordingly, Operator requested DGH for extension of exploration period.
Response from DGH is awaited.
B.
Appraisal period has expired on February 1,2022.
Consortium had requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  extension.
Response from DGH is awaited.
C. The project’s exploration phase under Exploration Service Contract ended on June 24, 2009.
National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC)  has signed a Development Service Contract (DSC) for Farzad-B gas field (Farsi field) development with a local Iranian Company.
The Company along with other Indian Consortium partners are engaged in negotiations/discussions with NIOC for appropriate  participation in the DSC.
D. The block is under relinquishment.
E. Blocks farmed-in from Oil India Ltd. IOCL share of Financial position of Joint Operations are as under: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Assets  930.70  774.72  PPE (including Producing Properties)  114.27  123.59  Capital Work in Progress  493.57  395.02  Intangible Asset under Development (Net of Provisions)  273.33  217.57  Other Assets (Net of Provisions)  49.53  38.54  Liabilities & Provisions  219.25  171.51  Liabilities  197.54  148.25  Provisions  21.71  23.26  Income  174.26  274.07  Sale of Products (Net of Own Consumption)  173.62  274.03  Other Income  0.64  0.04  Expenditure  114.12  88.96  Expenditure written off (incl exploration related)  -    2.14  Other Costs (incl exploration related)  114.12  86.82  Net Results  60.14  185.11  Commitments  2,515.82  2,432.02  Contingent Liabilities  12.16  -    Note: Including financial position of relinquished blocks.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 260 261  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 (i) Assets  288.29  220.75   - Intangible Assets under Development  273.34  217.57   - Capital Work in Progress  0.09  -     - Other  Assets  14.86  3.18  (ii) Liabilities  147.76  128.46   - Provisions  4.26  12.48   - Other  Liabilities  143.50  115.98  (iii) Income  0.51  -    (iv) Expenses  62.62  39.05   - Exploration expenditure written off  -    2.14   - Other exploration costs  62.62  36.91  (v) Cash Flow  - Net Cash from/(used) in operating activities  (54.50)  2.73   - Net Cash from/(used) in investing activities  (72.48)  (7.91) NOTE–34A: DISCLOSURE RELATING EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES The disclosure of financial information relating to activity associated with the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources (crude  oil, natural gas etc.)
are as under: NOTE-34B: OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES: DISCLOSURES IN RESPECT OF RESERVES: Dirok field of Pre-NELP block AAP-ON-94/1 commenced production of gas and condensate on August 26, 2017 having producing life  cycle of 20 years.
Indian Oil has the participating interest of 29.03% in the block.
Net Proved Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas: Assets March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million   Cubic Meter TMT Million   Cubic Meter A) Proved Reserves  Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Beginning  10.43  838.26  17.73  929.90  Addition  -    -    -    -    Deduction  -    -    -    -    Production  4.78  60.07  7.30  91.64  Balance  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved Reserves  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26  B)  Proved developed Reserves  Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Beginning  10.43  838.26  17.73  929.90  Addition  -    -    -    -    Deduction  -    -    -    -    Production  4.78  60.07  7.30  91.64  Balance  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved developed Reserves  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26  Details March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million   Cubic Meter TMT Million   Cubic Meter A) Proved Reserves  India  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved Reserves  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26  B) Proved developed Reserves  India  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved developed Reserves  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26  Net Proved Reserves & Proved developed Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas on geographical  basis: Frequency The Proved and Proved & Developed reserves mentioned above are the provisional numbers based on the estimate provided by the  operator.
For the purpose of estimation of Proved and Proved & Developed reserves, Deterministic method has been  used by the  operator.
The annual revision of Reserve Estimates is based on the yearly exploratory and development activities and results thereof.
NOTE – 35: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Disclosures in compliance with Ind-AS 19 on “Employee Benefits” is as under:  A.
Defined Contribution Plans- General Description  Employee Pension Scheme (EPS-95)  During the year, the company has recognised H 25.68 crore (2023: H 27.83 crore) as contribution to EPS-95 in the Statement of Profit  and Loss/ CWIP (included in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses in Note-2.2).
Pension Scheme  During the year, the company has recognised H 420.32 crore (2023: H 438.03 crore) towards Defined Contributory Employees  Pension Scheme (including contribution in corporate National Pension System) in the Statement of Profit and Loss/ CWIP (included  in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses in Note-2.2).
B.
Defined Benefit Plans- General Description  Provident Fund:   The Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund are remitted to the three separate provident fund trusts established for this  purpose based on a fixed percentage of the eligible employee’s salary and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Shortfall of  net income of trust below Government specified minimum rate of return, if any, and loss to the trust due to its investments turning  stressed are being made good by the Company.
Gratuity:  Each employee rendering continuous service of 5 years or more is entitled to receive gratuity amount based on completed tenure  of service subject to maximum of H 0.20 crore at the time of separation from the company.
Besides, the ceiling of gratuity increases  by 25% whenever IDA rises by 50% with reference to January 01, 2017.
Post Retirement Medical Benefit Facility (PRMBF):  PRMBF provides medical coverage to retired employees and their eligible dependent family members.
Resettlement Benefit:  Resettlement benefit is allowed to employees to facilitate them to settle down upon retirement.
Ex gratia Scheme:  Ex-gratia is payable to those employees who have retired before January 01, 2007 and either not drawing pension from  superannuation benefit fund (as they superannuated prior to January 01, 1987, i.e., introduction of superannuation benefit fund  scheme in IndianOil) or are drawing a pension lower than the ex gratia fixed for a Grade (in such case differential amount between  pension and ex gratia is paid).
Employees Compensation for injuries arising out of or during the course of employment:  Employees covered under the Employees’ Compensation Act, 1923 who meet with accidents, while on duty, are eligible for  compensation under the said Act.
Besides, a lumpsum monetary compensation equivalent to 100 months’ Pay (BP+DA) is paid in  the event of an employee suffering death or permanent total disablement due to an accident arising out of and in the course of his  employment.
Felicitation of Retired Employees:  The company has a scheme to felicitate retired employees on attaining different age milestones with a token lumpsum amount.
C. Other Long-Term Employee Benefits - General Description  Leave Encashment:  Each employee is entitled to get 8 earned leaves for each completed quarter of service.
Encashment of earned leaves is allowed  during service leaving a minimum balance of 15 days subject to maximum accumulation of 300 days.
In addition, each employee  NOTE-34B: OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES: DISCLOSURES IN RESPECT OF RESERVES: (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 262 263  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 35: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) is entitled to get 5 sick leaves (in lieu of 10 Half Pay Leave) at the end of every six months.
The entire accumulation of sick leave  is permitted for encashment only at the time of retirement.
DPE had clarified earlier that sick leave cannot be encashed, though  Earned Leave (EL) and Half Pay Leave (HPL) could be considered for encashment on retirement subject to the overall limit of 300  days.
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoPNG) has advised the company to comply with the said DPE Guidelines.
However,  in compliance to the DPE guidelines of 1987 which had allowed framing of own leave rules within broad parameters laid down by  the Government and keeping in view operational complications and service agreements the company had requested concerned  authorities to reconsider the matter.
Subsequently, based on the recommendation of the 3 rd Pay Revision Committee, DPE in its  guidelines on pay revision, effective from January 01, 2017 has inter-alia allowed CPSEs to frame their own leave rules considering  operational necessities and subject to conditions set therein.
The requisite conditions are fully met by the company.
Long Service Award:  On completion of specified period of service with the company and also at the time of retirement, employees are rewarded with  amounts based on the length of service completed.
It is a mode of recognizing long years of loyalty and faithful service in line  with Bureau of Public Enterprises (currently DPE) advice vide its DO No.
7(3)/79-BPE (GM.I) dated February 14, 1983.
On receipt  of communication from MoPNG advising us that the issue of Long Service Award has been made into an audit para in the Annual  Report of CAG of 2019, the Corporation has been clarifying its position to MoPNG individually as well as on industry basis as to  how Long Service Awards are not in the nature of Bonus or Ex-gratia or honorarium and is emanating from a settlement with the  unions under the Industrial Dispute Act as well as with the approval of the Board in line with the DPE’s advice of 1983.
The matter  is being pursued with MoPNG for resolution.
Pending this the provision is in line with Board approved policy.
Leave Fare Allowance (LFA) / Leave Travel Concession (LTC):  L TC is allowed once in a period of two calendar years (viz.
two yearly block).
An employee has, in any given block period of two  years, an option of availing L TC or encashing the entitlements of LFA.
D. The summarised position of various Defined Benefit Plans recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss, Balance Sheet and  Other Comprehensive Income are as under:  (Figures given in Unbold & Italic Font in the table are for previous year)  (i) Reconciliation of Balance of Defined Benefit Plans (J in crore) Particulars Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Defined Obligation at the beginning of  the year 19,111.18 2,567.47 7,634.04  113.08  258.19  470.85   18,069.96  2,655.33  7,045.20  118.90  255.36  467.25  Opening Balance Adjustment  6.19  -    -    -    -    -     (1.32)  -    -    -    -    -    Current Service Cost  645.58  51.24  311.36  15.34  -    1.61   513.20  54.77  288.06  16.86  -    1.73  Past Service Cost  -    -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -    -    Interest Cost  1,554.67  192.30  574.84  8.47  19.26  35.46   1,487.82  194.10  521.34  8.69  17.77  34.58  Contribution by employees  964.32  -    -    -    -    -     998.85  -    -    -    -    -    Net Liability transferred In / (Out)  192.62 - - - - -  241.59 - - - - - Benefits paid  (2,548.21) (278.37) (321.65)  (7.51)  (40.92)  (22.46)  (2,327.20)  (285.64)  (301.28)  (8.69)  (35.73)  (17.54) Actuarial (gain)/ loss on obligations  (128.28)  9.45  82.41  (15.27)  20.51  5.92   128.28  (51.09)  80.72  (22.68)  20.79  (15.17) Defined Benefit Obligation at the end of  the year  19,798.07 2,542.09 8,281.00  114.11  257.04  491.38   19,111.18  2,567.47  7,634.04  113.08  258.19  470.85   (ii) Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plan Assets NOTE – 35: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at the  beginning of the year  19,285.66 2,632.58 7,432.30  -    -    -     18,367.42  2,648.57  6,925.80  -    -    -    Opening Balance Adjustment  -    -    -    -     (5.81)  -    -    -    -    -    Interest Income  1,554.67  197.18  559.65  -    -    -     1,487.82  193.61  512.51  -    -    -    Contribution by employer  645.58  -    546.37  -    -    -     513.20  69.89  252.50  -    -    -    Contribution by employees  964.32  -    1.10  -    -    -     998.85  -    1.18  -    -    -    Net Liability transferred In / (Out)  192.62  -    -    -    -    -     241.59  -    -    -    -    -    Benefit paid  (2,548.21) (278.37) (321.65)  -    -    -     (2,327.20)  (285.64)  (301.28)  -    -    -    Re-measurement (Return on plan assets  excluding Interest Income)  35.39  3.85  43.45  -    -    -     9.79  6.15  41.59  -    -    -    Fair value of plan assets at the end of  the year  20,130.03 2,555.24 8,261.22  -    -    -     19,285.66  2,632.58  7,432.30  -    -    -    (J in crore) Particulars Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at the end of  the year  20,130.03 2,555.24 8,261.22  -    -    -     19,285.66  2,632.58  7,432.30  -    -    -    Defined Benefit Obligation at the end of  the year (Net of Interest Shortfall)  19,798.07 2,542.09 8,281.00  114.11  257.04  491.38   19,111.18  2,567.47  7,634.04  113.08  258.19  470.85  Amount not recognised in the Balance  Sheet (as per para 64 of Ind-As 19)  331.96  -    -    -    -    -     302.76  -    -    -    -    -    Net Liability/ (Assets) recognised in the  Balance Sheet  -    (13.15)  19.78  114.11  257.04  491.38   128.28  (65.11)  201.74  113.08  258.19  470.85  (J in crore) Particulars Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Current Service Cost  526.88  51.24  311.36  15.34  -    1.61   513.20  54.77  288.06  16.86  -    1.73  Past Service Cost  -    -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -    -    Net Interest Cost  -    (4.88)  15.19  8.47  19.26  35.46   -    0.49  8.83  8.69  17.77  34.58  Contribution by Employees  -    -    (1.10)  -    -    -     -    -    (1.18)  -    -    -    Expenses for the year  526.88  46.36  325.45  23.81  19.26  37.07   513.20  55.26  295.71  25.55  17.77  36.31   (iii) Reconciliation of Fair Value of Plan Assets and Defined Benefit Obligation  (iv) Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss/ Construction Period Expenses Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 264 265  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 35: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations  - Due to change in Demographic  assumptions  -    -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -    -    Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations  - Due to change in Financial  assumptions  -    58.71  112.91  4.67  2.31  41.53   -    (37.00)  (46.44)  (3.00)  (4.84)  19.29  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations   - Due to Experience  (9.58)  (49.26)  (30.50)  (19.94)  18.20  (35.61)  128.28  (14.09)  127.16  (19.68)  25.63  (34.46) Re-measurement (Return on plan assets  excluding Interest Income)  -    3.85  43.45  -    -    -     -    6.15  41.59  -    -    -    Net Loss / (Gain) recognized in OCI  (9.58)  5.60  38.96  (15.27)  20.51  5.92   128.28  (57.24)  39.13  (22.68)  20.79  (15.17) Particulars Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Discount rate 7.21% 7.21% 7.24% 7.21% 7.21% 7.24% 7.49% 7.49% 7.53% 7.49% 7.46% 7.53% Salary escalation  -   8.00%  -    -    -    -     -   8.00%  -    -    -    -    Inflation  -    -   8.00% 6.00%  -    -     -    -   8.00% 6.00%  -    -    Average Expected Future Service/  Obligation (Years)  -    17  30  17  9  30   -    17  30  17  9  30  Mortality rate during employment  -    Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) Urban  Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) Urban  -    (J in crore) Loss / (Gain) for : Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Change in Discounting Rate Increase by 1%  -   (197.63) (363.96)  (15.39)  (8.95)  (71.82)  -    (246.82)  (320.97)  (14.59)  (9.10)  (67.02) Decrease by 1%  411.20  234.60  443.76  19.43  9.73  25.48   281.59  160.70  390.11  18.42  9.90  25.27  Change in Salary Escalation Increase by 1%  -    47.50  -    -   - -  -    (14.36)  -    -   - - Decrease by 1%  -    (54.64)  -    -   - -  -    (113.28)  -    -   - - Change in Inflation Rate Increase by 1%  -   -  996.97  -   - -  -   -  912.53  -   - - Decrease by 1%  -   - (813.78)  -   - -  -   -  (744.38)  -   - -  (v) Amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  (vi) Major Actuarial Assumptions   In case of funded schemes above, expected return on plan assets is same as that of respective discount rate.
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and  other relevant factors such as supply and demand factors in the employment market.
(vii) Sensitivity on Actuarial Assumptions: NOTE – 35: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..)  (viii) Investment details: Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Funded Funded Funded Investment with Insurer  -   99.59% 89.13%  -   99.59% 88.38% Self managed investments 100.00% 0.41% 10.87% 100.00% 0.41% 11.62% Provident  Fund Gratuity* PRMS* Funded Funded Funded Government Securities (Central & State) 52.38% 89.78% 15.60% 54.16% 86.99% 10.50% Investment in Equity / Mutual Funds 9.00% 0.00% 39.04% 7.33% 0.00% 31.20% Investment in Debentures / Securities 35.74% 10.12% 45.14% 36.98% 9.72% 58.30% Other approved investments (incl.
Cash) 2.88% 0.10% 0.22% 1.53% 3.29% 0.00% (J in crore) Cash Flow Projection from the Fund/  Employer Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Within next 12 Months  278.82  326.36  7.10  49.89  27.94   308.15  297.39  8.01  49.21  25.32  Between 1 to 5 Years  917.02  1,414.52  21.27  149.21  120.61   895.58  1,285.41  22.96  149.83  117.52  Between 6 to 10 Years  956.30  2,001.68  28.94  99.32  176.17   1,010.29  1,809.15  30.92  102.90  172.01    Details of the investment pattern for the above mentioned funded obligations are as under:   * Pending receipt of investment pattern from LIC for current year, pattern above pertains to self managed funds & funds managed by other insurers and  the actual investment pattern after considering the details from LIC shall vary.
(ix) The following payments are expected projections to the defined benefit plan in future years: NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES A.
Leases (a) As Lessee   The Company has entered into various material  lease arrangements (including in substance lease arrangements) such as land and  buildings for the purpose of its plants, facilities, offices, retail outlet etc., storage tankages facility for storing petroleum products,  time charter arrangements for transportation of crude and petroleum products, transportation agreement for dedicated tank  trucks for road transportation of petroleum products, handling arrangement with CFA for providing dedicated storage facility and  handling lubes, supply of utilities like Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen and Water, way leave licences and port facilities among others.
There are no significant sale and lease back transactions and lease agreements entered by the Company do not contain any  material restrictions or covenants imposed by the lessor upto the current reporting period.
Details of significant leases entered by the Company (including in substance leases) are as under:  1.
Various arrangements on BOO/BOOT basis for Tankages facility, Water Intake facility, Quality Control Lab, Plants for supply  of utility gases at Refineries for periods ranging from 10–25 years.
In case of BOOT contracts, Lessor will transfer ownership  to IOCL at the end of contract period at Nil/Nominal value  2.
Leasehold lands from government for the purpose of plants, facilities and offices for the period 30 to 90 years.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 266 267  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Asset Class Net Carrying  value as at  April 01, 2022 Net Additions to  RoU Asset during  the Year** Depreciation/ Impairment  Recognized  During the Year Net Carrying  value as at  March 31, 2023 Leasehold Land  3,920.39  791.90  331.41  4,380.88  Buildings Roads etc.
339.37  20.53  37.03  322.87  Plant & Equipment  3,370.49  316.34  266.29  3,420.54  Transport Equipment  1,694.83  1,603.66  1,538.61  1,759.88  Railway Sidings  0.04  -    0.03  0.01  Total 9325.12 2732.43 2173.37 9884.18  3.
Agreements with vessel owners for hiring of dedicated time charter vessels for transportation of Company's crude and  petroleum products, these are classified as Transport Equipment.
4.
Agreements with Tank truck operators for providing dedicated tank trucks for transportation of company’s petroleum products.
5.
Arrangement for lease of land/ dedicated storage tanks for operating Retail Outlets for sale of Petroleum products, setting up  terminals/Bottling plant/Lube Blending plant for storing petroleum products/bottling LPG/Manufacturing Lubes respectively.
6.
CFA handling arrangement with CFAs for providing dedicated storage facility for handling lubes.
Amount Recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss or Carrying Amount of another asset NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Depreciation and Impairment recognized  2,930.52  2,173.37  Interest on lease liabilities  895.74  848.39  Expenses relating to short-term leases (leases more than 30 days but less  than 12 months)*  946.72  1,362.82  Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets, excluding short-term leases  of Low-value assets  32.40  32.68  Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities 10,139.26 10,353.72  Income from sub-leasing right-of-use assets - As Rental income from Operating Lease  19.04  25.31  - As Finance income from Finance Lease of RoU Asset  0.25  19.29  0.10  25.41  Total cash outflow for leases  4,897.80  4,258.29  Additions to ROU during the year  3,284.80  2,732.43  Net Carrying Amount of ROU at the end the year 10,238.46  9,884.18  Others including Disputed, Leave & Licence, Reversal of excess liability of  previous year, exchange fluctuation on lease liability etc.
325.00  666.03  (J in crore) Asset Class Net Carrying  value as at  April 01, 2023 Net Additions to  RoU Asset during  the Year** Depreciation/ Impairment  Recognized  During the Year Net Carrying  value as at  March 31, 2024 Leasehold Land  4,380.88  461.82  347.87  4,494.83  Buildings Roads etc.
322.87  39.37  54.65  307.59  Plant & Equipment  3,420.54  95.35  304.07  3,211.82  Transport Equipment  1,759.88  2,688.26  2,223.92  2,224.22  Railway Sidings  0.01  -    0.01  -    Total 9884.18 3284.80 2930.52 10238.46  *Includes Leases for which agreement are yet to be entered or due for renewal.
The details of ROU Asset included in PPE (Note 2) held as lessee by class of underlying asset are presented below :-  2023-2024  2022-2023  ** Additions to RoU Asset during the year is net of RoU Assets given on Sublease or modifications and cancellations during the year, if any.
As per requirement of the standard, maturity analysis of Lease Liabilities have been shown separately from the maturity analysis  of other financial liabilities under Liquidity Risk-Note 40: Financial Instruments & Risk Factors.
Details of items of future cash outflows which the Company is exposed as lessee but are not reflected in the measurement of  lease liabilities are as under;  (i) Variable Lease Payments   Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are to be included in the measurement of lease liability although  not paid at the commencement date.
As per general industry practice, the Company incurs various variable lease payments  which are not based any index or rate (variable based on kms covered or % of sales etc.)
and are recognized in profit or loss  and not included in the measurement of lease liability.
Details of some of the arrangements entered by the Company which  contain variable lease payments are as under:   1.
Transportation arrangement based on number of kms covered for dedicated tank trucks with different operators for  road transportation of petroleum, petrochemical and gas products.
2.
Leases of Land of Retail Outlets based on Sales volume.
3.
Rent for storage tanks for petroleum products on per day basis.
4.
Payment of VTS software and VSAT equipment based on performance of equipment.
5.
Payment of SD WAN equipment & software based on performance of equipment.
(ii) Extension and Termination Options   The Company lease arrangements includes extension options only to provide operational flexibility.
Company assesses  at every lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options and further reassesses  whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances  within its control.
However, where Company has the sole discretion to extend the contract such lease term is included for the  purpose of calculation of lease liabilities.
The Company has the sole discretion to terminate the lease in case of lease agreement for Retail Outlets.
However, Company  is reasonably certain not to exercise the option in view of significant improvement and prominent importance of Retail to  the entity's operations.
Accordingly, such lease term without any effect of termination is considered for the purpose of  calculation of lease liabilities.
(iii) Residual Value Guarantees   The Company have entered into various BOOT agreements wherein at the end of lease term the leased assets will be  transferred to the company at Nominal value which has no significant impact on measurement of lease liabilities.
(iv) Committed leases which are yet to commence   1.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Hydrogen and Nitrogen gas to Barauni  Refinery for a period of 20 years.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction of the plant.
Lease will commence  once plant is commissioned.
2.
The Company has paid Advance Upfront Premium of H 13.42 crore to MSRDC for land for 6 Retail outlets at Aurangabad  and Nagpur for the period of 30 years.
Out of this the agreement is yet to be executed for 1 RO with upfront premium  of H 4.33 crore and therefore the amount is lying as Capital Advance and shall form part of ROU Assets once  lease is commenced.
3.
The Company has  entered into lease agreement  for sourcing e-locks  from various vendors for a period of 3 years (with  an option to extend at the option of IOCL) at rate ranging from H 1,200-1630/month.
As at March 31, 2024, 1607 no's are  yet to be supplied.
However, the same are low value items.
4.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with Andhra Pradesh State Civil Supplies for land for 1 Retail Outlet  at Vizag for a period of 20 years at an monthly rental of H 20,000/- with an increment of 10% in every 3 years.
The  possession of land is not given and the matter is pending in the court.
5.
The Company has entered into centralised lease agreement with M/s Trimble for rent payment of H 373/month for VTS  software for POL trucks customised to IOCL requirement for a period of 5 years.
As at March 31, 2024 total 2488 Nos  are yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 268 269  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   6.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with various vendors for VTS software of LPG trucks for a period of 5  years at a rental ranging from H 102-176/month.
As at March 31, 2024 a total of 890 nos.
of VTS are yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
7.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with M/s Fox Solutions Pvt Ltd for IoT software & equipment for  Swagat RO's for a period of 3 years at a rental of H 4,950/month.
As at March 31, 2024 a total of 23 nos.
of equipment  are yet to be installed.
However, the same are low value items.
8.
The Company has  entered into lease agreement  for Supply, Installation and Maintenance of Dual Network Connectivity  Solution (SD-WAN Solutions) with Managed Services on rental basis for ROs for a period of 5 years on OPEX Model with  monthly rental of H 2,113/-.
Out of selected RO's, commissioning is pending in 2091 RO's.
However, payment is in the  nature of variable lease payment.
9.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Hydrogen gas to Panipat Refinery (P-25  Project) for a period of 20 years from first supply.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction of the plant.
Lease  will commence once plant is commissioned.
10.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Instrument Air, Plant Air and Nitrogen  gas to Panipat Refinery (P-25 Project) for a period of 20 years from first supply.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the  construction of the plant.
Lease will commence once plant is commissioned.
11.
The Company has placed an order for tankages and would enter into lease agreement on BOOT basis for Tankages  facilities for Panipat Refinery (P-25 Project) for a period of 15 years from its commissioning.
IOCL will sub lease the  land for the construction of the plant.
Lease will commence once plant is commissioned.
(b) As Lessor (i) Operating Lease  The lease rentals recognized as income in these statements as per the rentals stated in the respective agreements: NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Lease rentals recognized as income during the year  283.89  120.05  - Variable Lease  166.29  41.48  - Others  117.60  78.57  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Less than one year  26.12  53.96  One to two years  15.74  47.19  Two to three year  3.34  18.94  Three to four years  1.79  2.20  Four to five years  0.75  0.41  More than five years  1.49  0.16  Total  49.23  122.86   These relate to Land/Buildings subleased for non fuel business, storage tankage facilities for petroleum products, Leave and  Licence model, machinery, office and transport equipment given on lease.
Asset class wise details have been presented under  Note 2: Property, Plant and Equipment.
Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date (ii) Finance Lease  The Company has entered into the following material finance lease arrangements:  (i) The Company has subleased Telematics Equipment to its Fleet Customers.
IOCL has classified the sub lease as a finance  lease, because the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
The same is derecognized during the  year upon discontinuation of sublease by Fleet Customers.
(ii) The Company has entered into sublease arrangement of Office Space to PCRA for a period of 3 years.
The same has  been classified as finance lease as the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
The same is  derecognised during the year upon completion of lease term.
(iii) The Company has entered into a lease agreement with Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited in which the Company has  leased out land for one time upfront payment of H 16.65 crore  (iv) The Company had subleased certain Office Premises to IHB Limited.
Lease income from lease contracts in which the Company acts as a lessor is as below:- NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Selling Profit/(Loss)  -    (0.01) Finance income on the net investment in the lease  0.25  0.10  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Gross Investments in Finance Lease  20.89  24.95  Less: Unearned Finance Income  -    0.01  Less: Finance Income Received  0.29  0.47  Less: Minimum Lease payment received  20.35  23.54  Less: Adjustment during the year  0.25  0.19  Net Investment in Finance Lease as on Date  -    0.74  Opening Net Investment in Finance Lease  0.74 3.34 Add: New Leases added during the year  -    0.02  Less: PV of Minimum Lease payment received during the year  0.49  2.43  Less: Adjustment during the year  0.25  0.19  Closing Net Investment in Finance Lease - 0.74 (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Less than one year  -    0.74  One to two years  -    0.01  Total Undiscounted Lease Payment  -    0.75  Less: Unearned finance Income  -    0.01  Net Investment in Finance Lease as on date  -    0.74   Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date B.
Contingent Liabilities B.1 Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt  Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt  amounting to H 8,398.23 crore (2023: H 9,072.41 crore) are as under:  B.1.1 H 134.38 crore (2023: H 110.12 crore) being the demands raised by the Central Excise /Customs/ Service Tax/ GST Authorities  including interest of H 62.12 crore (2023: H 49.4 crore)  B.1.2 H 38.36 crore (2023: H 38.36 crore) in respect of demands for Entry Tax from State Governments including interest of H 8.62  crore (2023: H 8.62 crore).
B.1.3 H 804.55 crore (2023: H 1,286.26 crore) being the demands raised by the VAT/ Sales Tax Authorities including interest of  H 266.68 crore (2023: H 534.91 crore).
B.1.4 H 2,568.91 crore (2023: H 2,266.47 crore) in respect of Income Tax demands including interest of H 212 crore (2023:  H 113.34 crore).
B.1.5 H 4,687.21 crore (2023: H 5,005.96 crore) including H 3975.56 crore (2023: H 4,068.31 crore) on account of Projects for  which suits have been filed in the Courts or cases are lying with Arbitrator.
This includes interest of H 186.36 crore (2023:  H 212.93 crore).
B.1.6 H 164.82 crore (2023: H 365.24 crore) in respect of other claims including interest of H 74.87 crore (2023: H 27.74 crore).
The Company has not considered those disputed demands/claims as contingent liabilities, for which, the outflow of resources has  been considered as remote.
The Company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect  on its financial position.
Contingent liabilities in respect of joint operations are disclosed in Note 33B.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 270 271  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–36: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..) B.2 Guarantees excluding Financial Guarantees      B.2.1 The Company has entered into Master Guarantee Agreement, on behalf of its subsidiaries viz.
Indoil Global B.V. and Indoil  Montney Ltd. for all of its payments and performance obligations under the various Project Agreements entered by the  subsidiaries with PETRONAS Carigali Canada B.V. and Progress Energy Canada Ltd. (now renamed as Petronas Energy  Canada Ltd.).
The total amount sanctioned by the Board of Directors is CAD 3924.76 million.
The estimated amount of such  obligation (net of amount paid) as on 31st March 2024 is H 3,367.22 crore – CAD 549.49 million (2023: H 4,150.21 crore - CAD  683.56 million).
The sanctioned amount was reduced by CAD 1,462.00 million due to winding down of LNG Plant during 2017.
*B.2.2 The Company has issued Corporate Guarantee in favour of three beneficiaries i.e., Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela  (Republic), The Corporation Venezolana del Petroleo S.A. and PeTroCarabobo S.A., on behalf of Indoil Netherlands B.V.,  Netherlands (an associate Company) to fulfil the associate Company’s future obligations of payment of signature bonus /  equity contribution / loan to the beneficiaries.
The total amount sanctioned by the Board of Directors is USD 424 million.
The  estimated amount of such obligation (net of amount paid) as on 31 st March 2024 is H 3,055.57 crore - USD 366.33 million  (2023: H 3,010.33 crore – USD 366.33 million).
*B.2.3 The Company has issued Corporate Guarantee, on behalf of IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL), to the extent of  obligations of later company under Performance Bank Guarantee facility provided to IOAGPL by State Bank of India, Canara  Bank, Bank of Baroda, Indian Bank, IndusInd Bank, Jammu and Kashmir Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank.
The Company’s  share of such obligation is estimated at H 3,472.15 crore (2023: H 3,533.46 crore).
*B.2.4 The Company has issued Parent Company Guarantee in favour of Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, on behalf of Urja Bharat  Pte.
Ltd., Singapore (a joint venture company of Company's subsidiary i.e., IOCL Singapore Pte Ltd) to fulfill the joint venture  Company's future obligations of payment and performance of Minimum Work Programme.
The total amount sanctioned by  the Board of Directors is USD 89.7 Million.
The estimated amount of such obligation (net of amount paid) is H 144.30 crore -  USD 17.30 million (2023: H 239.95 crore - USD 29.20 million).
* The Company has sought an opinion from Expert Advisory Committee (EAC) of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India on treatment of these as  Financial Guarantee.
On receipt of the EAC opinion, appropriate effect will be given in the books of account, if required.
B.3 Other money for which the Company is Contingently Liable  B.3.1 Pending decision of the Government, no liability could be determined and provided for in respect of additional compensation,  if any, payable to the land owners and the Government for certain lands acquired.
B.3.2 As on 31.03.2024 company has contingent liability of H 967.81 crore (2023: H 479.08 crore) towards custom duty for capital  goods imported under Manufacturing & Other operation in Warehouse Regulation (MOOWR) scheme against which company  has executed and utilised bond amounting to H 2,903.43 crore (2023: H 1,437.24 crore) which represents three times of the  custom duty.
The firm liability towards such custom duty shall be contingent upon conditions (Rate of custom duty/decision  of company to export, etc.)
at the time of filing of ex-bond bill of entry at the time of disposal.
In case the Company decides  to export such capital goods, the associated costs shall not be significant.
C. Commitments C.1 Capital Commitments  Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account and thus not provided for is H 61,085.44 crore   (2023: H  74,493.28 crore) inclusive of taxes.
NOTE 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES As required by Ind-AS -24 “Related Party Disclosures”, are given below : 1.
Subsidiaries and their Subsidiaries: A.
Details of Subsidiary Companies/ Entities and their Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries 1) Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited 8) IndOil Global B.V., Netherlands 2) IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited   (incorporated on 17.05.2023) 9) IOCL Singapore Pte.
Limited 3) IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited 4) Lanka IOC PLC Step Down Subsidiaries 5) IOC Middle East FZE 1) IndOil Montney Limited 6) IOC Sweden AB 2) IOCL Exploration and Production Oman Limited 7) IOCL (USA) INC. B.
The following transactions were carried out with Subsidiary Companies/Entities and their Subsidiaries in the ordinary course  of business: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 1 Sales of Products/Services  2,780.63  2,242.77  [Includes sales to Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited H 2,486.33 crore  (2023: H 1,967.69 crore), IOC Middle East FZE H 5.32 crore (2023: H 246.86  crore) and Lanka IOC PLC H 281.18 crore (2023: H 18.50 crore) ] 2 Other Operating Revenue/Dividend/Other Income  790.66  1,944.28  [Includes Other Operating Revenue/Dividend/Other Income from IOCL  Singapore Pte.
Limited H 288.75 crore (2023: H 1,511.01 crore), Chennai  Petroleum Corporation Limited H 272.39 crore (2023: H 229.90 crore) and  IndOil Global B.V., Netherlands H 176.63 crore (2023: H 157.34 crore)] 3 Purchase of Products  71,796.87  82,110.68  [Includes Purchase of Products from Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  H 71,796.87 crore (2023: H 82,110.68 crore)] 4 Purchase of Raw Materials/Others  2,019.60  2,286.26  [Includes Purchase of Raw Materials/Others from Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited H 2,019.60 crore (2023: H 2,286.26 crore)] 5 Interest paid  0.58  -    [Mainly includes Interest paid to IOC Global Capital Management IFSC  Limited H 0.58 crore (2023:Nil)] 6 Expenses Paid/(Recovered) (Net)  (17.68)  (8.96) [Includes Expenses Paid to/(Recovered) from Chennai Petroleum Corporation  Limited H (20.71) crore (2023: H (9.57) crore)] 7 Investments made/(sold) during the year (Incl.
Advance for Investment)  110.56  -    [Includes Investment made/(reduction in share capital) in IOC Sweden AB H  104.31 crore (2023:Nil)] 8 Purchase/ (Sale)/Acquisition of Fixed Assets (Incl.
CWIP/Leases)  21.94  21.57  [Includes Purchase/(Sale)/Acquisition of Fixed Assets incl.
CWIP/Leases  from Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited H 21.94 crore (2023: H 21.57  crore)] 9 Provisions made/ (write back) during the year  -    43.14  [Includes Provision made/ (written back) in IOC Sweden AB- Nil (2023: H  43.14 crore)] 10 Outstanding Receivables/Loans  2,925.26  2,267.00  [Includes Outstanding Receivables from Chennai Petroleum Corporation  Limited H 2,870.04 crore (2023: H 2,208.53 crore)] 11 Outstanding Payables (Incl.
Lease Obligation)  1,237.99  416.67  [Includes Outstanding payable to IOC Global Capital Management IFSC  Limited H 834.68 crore (2023:Nil) and Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  H 390.55 crore (2023: H 398.53 crore)] 12 Investments in Subsidiaries as on date  16,452.44  16,411.40  13 Guarantees Financial Guarantees  4,630.47  3,767.53  [Includes Financial Guarantees given to IndOil Montney Limited H 4,630.47  crore (2023: H 3,767.53 crore)] Other than Financial Guarantees  3,367.22  4,150.21  [Includes Parent Company Guarantees for other than debt obligation given to  IndOil Montney Limited H 3,367.22 crore (2023: H 4,150.21 crore)] NOTE 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..)  Notes:  1) Transactions in excess of 10% of the total related party transactions for each type has been disclosed above.
2) In case of Subsidiary Companies constituted/acquired during the year, transactions w.e.f.
date of constitution /  acquisition are disclosed.
3) In case of  Subsidiary Companies which have been closed/divested during the year, transactions up to the date of closure /  disinvestment only are disclosed.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 272 273  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..) 2.
Joint Ventures (JVs) and Associate of IOCL & their subsidiaries and JVs of Subsidiaries of IOCL: A) Details of Joint Ventures (JVs) / Associate Entities to IOCL & its Subsidiaries: JVs and Associates of IOCL 1) IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited 25) Ujjwala Plus Foundation^^ 2) Lubrizol India Private Limited 26) IHB Limited 3) Petronet VK Limited 27) IndianOil Total Private Limited  4) IndianOil Petronas Private Limited 28) IOC Phinergy Private Limited  5) Avi-Oil India Private Limited 29) Paradeep Plastic Park Limited  6) Petronet India Limited * 30) Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited@@ 7) Petronet LNG Limited 31) IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited   (Incorporated on 02.06.2023) 8) Green Gas Limited 32) GH4India Private Limited (Incorporated on 25.08.2023) 9) Petronet CI Limited @ 10) IndianOil LNG Private Limited JVs and Associates of IOCL 's Subsidiaries 11) IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited 33) Indian Additives Limited 12) Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited 34) National Aromatics & Petrochemicals Corporation Limited 13) Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited 35) Taas India PTE Limited 14) Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited 36) Vankor India PTE Limited 15) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP # 37) Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminals Limited 16) NPCIL- IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited 38) Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. 17) GSPL India Transco Limited 39) Urja Bharat PTE Limited 18) GSPL India Gasnet Limited 40) Beximco IOC Petroleum and Energy Limited  19) IndianOil - Adani Gas Private Limited 41) INDOIL Netherlands B.V. 20) Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited 42) Bharat Energy Office LLC 21) Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited 43) Trinco Petroleum Terminal (Private) Limited  22) Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited$ 44) Mer Rouge Oil Storage Terminal Limited 23) Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited 45) I.O.M.L.
Hulas Lube Private Limited (Incorporated on 08.11.2023) 24) Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited 1) IAV Engineering & Construction Services Limited  (formerly known as IOT Engineering & Construction  Services Limited) 10) IndianOil Skytanking Delhi Private Limited 2) Stewarts and Lloyds of India Limited   (dissolved in April 2023) 11) IAV Biogas Private Limited  (formerly known as IOT Biogas Private Limited) 3) IAV Infrastructures Private Limited  (formerly known as IOT Infrastructures Private Limited) 12) Petronet LNG Foundation (Limited by Guarantee) 4) IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited 13) Petronet Energy Limited  5) PT IOT EPC Indonesia (Stake sold w.e.f.
15.11.2023) 14) KazakhstanCaspishelf India Private Limited 6) IAV Engineering Projects Limited  (formerly known as IOT Engineering Projects Limited) 15) Petronet LNG Singapore PTE.
Limited  7) JSC KazakhstanCaspishelf 16) IOSL Noida Private Limited  8) Indian Oiltanking Engineering & Construction Services  LLC Oman  17) IAV Utkarsh Limited (formerly known as IOT Utkarsh Limited) 9) IOT Vito Muhendislik Insaat Ve Taahut A.S. 18) IAV Urja Services Limited (Incorporated on 12.12.2023) B) Details of Subsidiaries to JVs of IOCL:  *  Petronet India Limited is a JV amongst  Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under winding up and the matter is pending  with Official Liquidator since 2018.
@  Petronet CI Ltd. is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is pending with Official  Liquidator since 2006.
#  IndianOil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the other JV partner viz.
Ruchi  Soya Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will exit the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time  frame for  completing exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with ROC was within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but the  same is still pending and IndianOil's name is appearing on ROC website as Partner in the said LLP .
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under Corporate  Insolvency Resolution Process and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited.
All necessary documents have been provided to M/s Ruchi for  completing formalities relating to exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP .
$  The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 23.11.2022 has accorded in-principle approval for disinvestment of Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited.
Further, MOP&NG vide letter dated 19th May, 2023 has accorded approval to IndianOil for disinvestment from HURL in line with DIPAM's OM dated 04.02.2021.
^^  The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 14.03.2023 has accorded in-principle approval for closure of Ujjwala Plus Foundation.
@@  The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 28.03.2024 has accorded in-principle approval for revision in capital structure of CBRPL with 75% equity from  IndianOil and 25% equity from CPCL.
Upon IndianOil acquiring the balance 50% equity shares, CBRPL would become a Subsidiary of IndianOil.
NOTE 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..) C) The following transactions were carried out with Joint Ventures (JVs)/ Associate of IOCL & their subsidiaries and JVs of  Subsidiaries of IOCL in the ordinary course of business: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 1 Sales of Products/Services  5,194.92  4,666.48  [Includes sales to IndianOil Petronas Private Limited H 2,615.22 crore (2023:  H 2,751.39 crore), Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited H 1,514.26 crore  (2023: H 496.90 crore) and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited H 609.31  crore (2023: H 537.52 crore)] 2 Interest received  221.89  274.32  [Includes interest received from IndianOil LNG Private Limited H 219.18 crore  (2023: H 273.04 crore)] 3 Other Operating Revenue/Dividend/Other Income  525.56  533.42  [Includes Other Operating Revenue/Dividend/Other Income from Petronet  LNG Limited H 194.00 crore (2023: H 221.40 crore), Indian Synthetic Rubber  Private Limited H 140.40 crore (2023: H 163.85 crore) and IndianOil Petronas  Private Limited H 98.95 crore (2023: H 67.77 crore)] 4 Purchase of Products  12,185.90  13,622.43  [Includes Purchase of Products from Petronet LNG Limited H 10,685.34 crore  (2023: H 12,312.45 crore)] 5 Purchase of Raw Materials/Others  7,818.71  8,301.35  [Includes Purchase of Raw Materials/Others from Petronet LNG Limited   H 4,417.16 crore (2023: H 5,487.55 crore) and Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. H 2,717.76  crore (2023: H 2,229.70 crore)] 6 Interest paid  181.75  206.97  [Includes Interest paid to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited H 181.75 crore  (2023: H 206.97 crore)] 7 Expenses Paid/(Recovered) (Net)  843.13  1,293.19  [Includes Expenses Paid to/(Recovered) from IndianOil Petronas Private  Limited H 329.51 crore (2023: H 371.14 crore), IndianOil Sky Tanking Private  Limited H 196.33 crore (2023: H 191.30 crore), IndianOil Adani Ventures  Limited H 120.05 crore (2023: H 117.64 crore), IOT Utkal Energy Services  Limited H 91.41 crore (2023: H 76.78 crore), Petronet LNG Limited H 0.01 crore  (2023: H 227.08 crore) and IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited H 0.27 crore  (2023: H 215.17 crore)] 8 Investments made/(sold) during the year (Incl.
Advance for Investment)  601.31  821.03  [Includes Investment made in Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited   H 347.03 crore (2023: H 666.54 crore), GSPL India Gasnet Limited H 83.00  crore (2023:Nil) and Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Limited H 76.99 crore  (2023: H 90.64 crore)] 9 Purchase/(Sale)/Acquisition of Fixed Assets (Incl.
CWIP/Leases)  -    1.01  [Includes Purchase/(Sale)/Acquisition/(Recovered) of Fixed Assets incl.
CWIP/Leases from GSPL India Transco Limited- Nil (2023: H 0.95 crore)] 10 Provisions made/(write back) during the year  -    0.05  [Includes Provision made/(written back) in Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited- Nil  (2023: H 0.05 crore)] 11 Outstanding Receivables/Loans  2,218.40  2,178.03  [Includes Outstanding Receivables/Loans from IndianOil LNG Private Limited  H 1,056.21 crore (2023: H 1,056.12 crore) and Petronet LNG Limited H 226.63  crore (2023: H 257.48 crore)] Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 274 275  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 12 Outstanding Payables (Incl.
Lease Obligation)  2,974.94  3,074.53  [Includes Outstanding payable to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited   J 1,683.84 crore (2023: J 1,913.89 crore) and Petronet LNG Limited   J 1,009.93 crore (2023: J 930.69 crore)] 13 Investments in JV/Associates as on date  11,807.04  11,064.32  14 Guarantees Financial Guarantees  132.00  165.86  [Includes Financial Guarantees given to Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited  H 132.00 crore (2023: H 20.00 crore) and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private  Limited- Nil (2023: H 145.86 crore)] Other than Financial Guarantees  6,672.02  6,783.74  [Includes Parent Company Guarantees for other than debt obligation given to  IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited H 3,472.15 crore (2023: H 3,533.46 crore)  and INDOIL Netherlands B.V. H 3,055.57 crore (2023: H 3,010.33 crore)]  Notes:  1) Transactions in excess of 10% of the total related party transactions for each type has been disclosed above.
2) In case of Joint Venture/ Subsidiary Companies constituted/acquired during the period, transactions w.e.f.
date of constitution  / acquisition is disclosed.
3) In case of Joint Venture / Subsidiary Companies which have been closed/divested during the period, transactions up to the  date of closure / disinvestment only are disclosed.
3.
Government related entities where significant transactions carried out  Apart from transactions reported above, the Company has transactions with other Government related entities, which includes but  not limited to the following: Name of Government: Government of India (Central and State Government) Nature of Transactions: 	 Sale of Products and Services 	 Purchase of Products 	 Purchase of Raw Materials 	 Handling and Freight Charges, etc.
These transactions are conducted in the ordinary course of the Company's business on terms comparable to those with other  entities that are not Government-related.
4) Key Managerial Personnel A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company Secretary/CFOB.
Independent Directors C. Government Nominee Directors  1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  1) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  1) Shri Sunil Kumar  2) Shri V. Satish Kumar  2) Dr.(Prof.) Ashutosh Pant  3) Ms. Sukla Mistry   3) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker    4) Shri Sujoy Choudhury  4) Shri Prasenjit Biswas    5) Shri N. Senthil Kumar (w.e.f.
14.08.2023)  5) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray    6) Shri Anuj Jain (w.e.f.
09.10.2023)  6) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan    7) Shri Alok Sharma (w.e.f.
16.01.2024)  7) Dr. (Prof.) Ram Naresh Singh    8) Ms. Rashmi Govil (w.e.f.
15.03.2024)  8) Ms. Lata Usendi (Upto 05.11.2022)  9) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra   (Upto 02.05.2023)    10) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar   (Upto 31.07.2023)   11) Shri D.S.
Nanaware (Upto 30.06.2023)   12) Shri S K Gupta (Upto 03.10.2022)  13) Shri Sanjay Kaushal (Upto 09.10.2023)   14) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani   D) Details relating to the personnel referred to in Item No.
4A & 4B above:  March 31, 2024 NOTE 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..) (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company  Secretary/CFO 1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.74  0.90  0.01  1.65  -    -    2) Shri V. Satish Kumar  0.71  0.08  0.11  0.90  -    -    3) Ms. Sukla Mistry   0.67  0.08  -    0.75  -    -    4) Shri Sujoy Choudhury  0.73  0.08  0.10  0.91  -    -    5) Shri N. Senthil Kumar  0.39  0.05  0.17  0.61  -    0.03  6) Shri Anuj Jain  0.22  0.04  -    0.26  -    0.19  7) Shri Alok Sharma  0.13  0.02  0.11  0.26  -    -    8) Ms. Rashmi Govil  0.03  0.01  -    0.04  -    0.08  9) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra  0.14  -    -    0.14  -    -    10) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.29  0.72  0.11  1.12  -    -    11) Shri D.S.
Nanaware  0.50  0.80  0.11  1.41  -    -    12) Shri Sanjay Kaushal  0.41  0.04  0.01  0.46  -    -    13) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani   0.67  0.08  -    0.75  -    0.23  B.
Independent Directors 1) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  -    -    -    -    0.08  -    2) Dr.(Prof.) Ashutosh Pant  -    -    -    -    0.11  -    3) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker   -    -    -    -    0.11  -    4) Shri Prasenjit Biswas   -    -    -    -    0.14  -    5) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray   -    -    -    -    0.11  -    6) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan   -    -    -    -    0.10  -    7) Dr. (Prof.) Ram Naresh Singh   -    -    -    -    0.06  -    Total  5.63  2.90  0.73  9.26  0.71  0.53  (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company  Secretary/CFO 1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.76  0.09  0.09  0.94  -    0.01  2) Shri V. Satish Kumar  0.93  0.09  -    1.02  -    -    3) Ms. Sukla Mistry   0.72  0.09  0.09  0.90  -    -    4) Shri Sujoy Choudhury  0.73  0.09  0.10  0.92  -    -    5) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra  0.84  0.09  -    0.93  -    0.01  6) Dr S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.75  0.09  0.10  0.94  -    -    7) Shri D.S.
Nanaware  0.60  0.09  0.09  0.78  -    -    8) Shri S K Gupta  0.49  0.05  0.18  0.72  -    -    9) Shri Sanjay Kaushal  0.29  0.04  -    0.33  -    -    10) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani   0.71  0.08  0.07  0.86  -    0.24  B.
Independent Directors 1) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  -    -    -    -    0.06  -    2) Dr.(Prof.) Ashutosh Pant  -    -    -    -    0.09  -    3) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker   -    -    -    -    0.09  -    4) Shri Prasenjit Biswas   -    -    -    -    0.08  -    5) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray   -    -    -    -    0.09  -     March 31, 2023 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 276 277  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 37: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (Contd..) (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables 6) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan   -    -    -    -    0.09  -    7) Dr. (Prof.) Ram Naresh Singh   -    -    -    -    0.04  -    8) Ms. Lata Usendi  -    -    -    -    0.07  -    Total  6.82  0.80  0.72  8.34  0.61  0.26   Notes :  1) This does not include the impact of provision made on actuarial valuation of retirement benefit/ long term Schemes and  provision made during the period towards Post Retirement Benefits as the same are not separately ascertainable for  individual directors.
2) There were no Share Based Employee Benefits given to KMPs during the period.
3) In addition, whole-time Directors are also allowed the use of Corporation's car for private purposes up to 12,000 kms.
per  annum on a payment of H 2,000/- per mensem.
4) Remuneration and Loan balances for KMP is reported for the period of tenure as KMP .
5) Relatives of Key Managerial Personnel and nature of relation with whom transactions are undertaken during the year:  1) Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya (Assistant Manager (Production), Indian Oil Corporation Limited): Son of Key  Managerial Personnel  2) Shri Vinayak Shrikant Vaidya (Production Engineer, Indian Oil Corporation Limited): Son of Key Managerial Personnel (J in crore) Details relating to the parties referred above: March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 1 Remuneration ^  Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya  0.23  0.25   Shri Vinayak Shrikant Vaidya  0.16  0.04  2 Outstanding Receivables/ Loans ^  Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya  0.11  -     Shri Vinayak Shrikant Vaidya  -    -      ^ Remuneration and Loan balances for relative of KMP is reported for the period of tenure of KMP .
6) Employee Benefit Trusts  Transactions with Post Employment Benefit Plans managed through separate trust: (J in crore) Name of the Trust Post Employment  Benefit Plan March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Contribution  by employer  Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable)  Contribution  by employer  Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable)  1 IOCL (Refinery Division) Employees  Provident Fund Provident Fund  264.97  8.64  249.51  228.94  2 Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (Assam Oil Division) Employees  Provident Fund Provident Fund  17.42  (0.23)  17.44  4.25  3 Provident Fund for the Employees  of Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (Marketing Division) Provident Fund  244.48  (1.43)  246.25  (1.73) 4 IOCL Employees Superannuation  Benefit Fund Pension Scheme  108.75  2.25  127.71  34.58  5 IOCL Employees Post Retirement  Medical Benefit Fund Post Retirement   Medical Scheme  546.37  (19.78)  252.50  (241.01) 6 IOCL Employees Group Gratuity  Trust Gratuity  -    13.15  69.89  63.14  NOTE - 38: SEGMENT INFORMATION Operating Segment Reporting as per Ind-AS 108 for the year ended March 31, 2024 is as under: (J in crore) 2023-2024 2022-2023 Petroleum  Products Petro- chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Petroleum  Products Petro-  chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Revenue  External Revenue  8,03,127.27 26,186.80 37,031.31  -    8,66,345.38  8,79,222.59 22,259.11 33,470.96  -    9,34,952.66   Inter-segment  Revenue  18,515.49  46.89  68.89  (18,631.27)  -    15,859.74  38.07  74.32 (15,972.13)  -    Total Revenue  8,21,642.76 26,233.69 37,100.20 (18,631.27)  8,66,345.38  8,95,082.33 22,297.18 33,545.28 (15,972.13)  9,34,952.66  Result  Segment Results  excluding  Exchange Gain/  (Loss)  55,998.65  (351.49)  761.59  -    56,408.75  16,404.29  (241.23)  1,729.27  -    17,892.33   Segmental  Exchange Gain/  (Loss)  (821.81)  7.35  27.61  -    (786.85)  (4,128.70)  59.83  (0.57)  -    (4,069.44) Segment Results  (Before Exceptional  Items)  55,176.84  (344.14)  789.20  -    55,621.90  12,275.59  (181.40)  1,728.70  -    13,822.89  Less: Unallocable  Expenditure - Finance Cost  7,327.79  6,930.27  - Impairment Loss  on Financial  Assets -  Pertaining to  Investment  -    43.19  - Exchange Loss -  (Net)  394.11  2,631.69  - Loss on  Derivatives  -    357.76  - Fair value Loss  on Financial  instruments  classified as  FVTPL  -    340.59  - Other non  operating  expenses  -    56.47  Add: Unallocable  Income - Interest and  Dividend Income  4,105.71  6,166.27  - Gain on  Derivatives  84.09  -    - Fair value gain  on Financial  instruments  classified as  FVTPL  128.41  -    - Other non  operating  income  126.00  68.95  Profit / (Loss) Before  Tax  52,344.21  9,698.14  Less: Income Tax  (including deferred  tax)  12,725.37  1,456.32  Profit / (Loss) After  Tax  39,618.84  8,241.82  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 278 279  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 38: SEGMENT INFORMATION (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Petroleum  Products Petro- chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Petroleum  Products Petro-  chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Segment Assets  3,29,731.14  35,187.89  16,303.88  3,81,222.91  3,09,362.03  33,557.97  14,818.28  3,57,738.28  Corporate Assets  Investments  (Current and Non  Current)  71,088.18  57,519.27   Advances For  Investments  192.05  10.65   Advance Tax  1,799.10  1,857.57   Loans  2,935.40  2,556.70   Derivative Asset  2.98  218.12   Finance Lease  Receivables  -    0.74  Total Assets  4,57,240.62  4,19,901.33  Segment Liabilities 1,31,021.11  1,750.00  3,983.04  1,36,754.15  1,23,995.87  1,299.11  3,449.80  1,28,744.78  Corporate Liabilities  Provision For  Taxation  906.63  -     Borrowings  (Short Term and  Long Term)  1,16,495.74  1,32,495.45   Lease  Obligations  (Short Term and  Long Term)  9,370.94  9,054.59   Deferred Tax  Liabilities   16,637.10  14,613.00   Derivative  Liabilities  361.08  235.97   Total Liabilities  2,80,525.64  2,85,143.79   Capital Employed  Segment Wise  1,98,710.03  33,437.89  12,320.84  2,44,468.76  1,85,366.16  32,258.86  11,368.48  2,28,993.50   Corporate  (67,753.78)  (94,235.96) 1.
The Company is engaged in the following operating segments:  a) Sale of Petroleum Products  b) Sale of Petrochemicals  c) Other operating segment of the Corporation comprises; Gas, Oil & Gas Exploration Activities, Explosives & Cryogenic Business  and Wind Mill & Solar Power Generation.
Segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the nature of products and services and differing  risks and returns.
2.
Segment Revenue comprises of the following:  a) Turnover (Inclusive of Excise Duties)  b) Net Claim/(Surrender) of SSC  c) Subsidy / Grants received from Governments  d) Other Operating Revenue 3.
Inter segment pricing are at Arm’s length basis 4.
There are no reportable geographical segments.
Other Information (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Petroleum  Products Petro- chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Petroleum  Products Petro-  chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Total Capital  Employed  1,76,714.98  1,34,757.54  Capital Expenditure  32,636.42  5,708.93  1,752.58  -    40,097.93  27,270.69  6,173.56  1,656.46  -    35,100.71  Depreciation and  Amortization  12,591.91  1,258.03  659.66  -    14,509.60  10,647.12  957.36  254.96  -    11,859.44  NOTE - 38: SEGMENT INFORMATION (Contd..) Geographical information (J in crore) Particulars Revenue from external customers Non-current  assets 2023-2024 2022-2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 India  8,31,696.16  8,96,683.50  2,44,449.41  2,18,277.62  Outside India  34,649.22  38,269.16  372.21  243.47  Total  8,66,345.38  9,34,952.66  2,44,821.62  2,18,521.09  (J in crore) Particulars Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value  measurement  hierarchy level As at  March 31,  2024 As at  March 31,  2023 As at  March 31,  2024 As at  March 31,  2023 Financial Assets A.
Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income  (FVTOCI):  Quoted Equity Shares 32,622.45 17,970.96 32,622.45 17,970.96 Level 1  Unquoted Equity Instruments (Refer Note-2 below)  4,494.29  982.14  4,494.29  982.14 Level 3  Quoted Government Securities  9,530.90 11,090.45  9,530.90 11,090.45 Level 1  Hedging Derivatives   Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans  -    32.80  -    32.80 Level 2  Commodity forward contracts- Margin Hedging  2.98  130.97  2.98  130.97 Level 2  Interest Rate Swap  -    54.35  -    54.35 Level 2 B.
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL):  Non Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares  493.05  457.01  493.05  457.01 Level 3  Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (Refer Note-2  below)  -    3,605.36  -    3,605.36 Level 3  Loan to Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited (Refer Note-3 below)  -    -    -    -   Level 3 Revenue from major products and services (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Motor Spirit (MS)  1,92,926.62  1,95,036.36  High Speed Diesel (HSD)  4,01,874.29  4,32,902.44  Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)  1,02,693.67  1,23,130.44  Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF)  42,324.00  46,406.04  Others  1,26,526.80  1,37,477.38  Total External Revenue  8,66,345.38  9,34,952.66  NOTE - 39: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT I.
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s financial instruments,  along with the fair value measurement hierarchy: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 280 281  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value  measurement  hierarchy level As at  March 31,  2024 As at  March 31,  2023 As at  March 31,  2024 As at  March 31,  2023 C. Amortised Cost:  Loans to employees  2,055.19  1,634.46  1,963.11  1,550.80 Level 2  PMUY Loan (Refer point 1 of Note-49 for more details)  356.45  513.62  359.87  522.37 Level 3 Financial Liabilities A. Amortised Cost:  Non-Convertible Debentures 16,913.38 22,407.72 17,461.31 23,101.54 Level 2  Loan from Odisha Government  2,351.95  1,970.30  2,456.80  1,837.53 Level 2  Fixed Rate Term Loan (USD 100 Mn)  -    822.51  -    781.87 Level 2 B.
Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL):  Derivative Instruments at fair value through profit or loss  360.83  235.97  360.83  235.97 Level 2 C.  Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI):  Hedging Derivatives   Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans  0.25  -    0.25  -   Level 2 NOTE - 39: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..)  Notes:  1.
The management has assessed that fair values of Trade Receivables, Trade Payables, Cash and Cash Equivalents, Bank  Balances & Bank Deposits, Loans (incl.
Security Deposits) other than mentioned above, Short Term Borrowings (incl.
Current  Maturities of Long Term Borrowings), Floating Rate Borrowings, Lease Liabilities, Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current  Financial Assets & Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current Financial Liabilities approximate their carrying amounts.
2.
During the year, the Compulsorily Convertible Debentures in Indian Oil LNG Private Limited amounting to H 3,665 crore were  converted into Optionally Convertible Debentures and the company exercised its option to redeem the same.
Further, the  Company has subscribed to 366.50 crore share warrants of Indian Oil LNG Private Limited at a price of H 3,661.34 crore  (H 9.99 per warrant).
Each warrant entitles the holder to subscribe to and be allotted 1 share (face value H  10), at a predetermined  exercise price of H 0.01 per warrant, within the exercise period of 15 years.
3.
During last year, the management had assessed viability of the project being carried out by Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited.
Due to uncertainty involved in carrying out operations and non-utilisation of available reserves of Block - OML 142, the  management had assessed the fair value of investment and loan advanced to Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited as NIL.
Methods and Assumptions  The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values at the reporting date:  A.
Level 1 Hierarchy:   (i) Quoted Equity Shares: Closing quoted price (unadjusted) in National Stock Exchange of India Limited   (ii) Quoted Government Securities: Closing published price (unadjusted) in Clearing Corporation of India Limited    (iii) Foreign Currency Bonds - US Dollars: Closing price (unadjusted) for the specific bond collected from active market  B.
Level 2 Hierarchy:   (i) Derivative Instruments at FVTPL: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use of  market observable inputs.
(ii) Hedging Derivatives at FVTOCI: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use of  market observable inputs.
(iii) Loans to employees: Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for items on similar terms, credit risk  and remaining maturities, adjusted for insignificant unobservable inputs specific to such loan like principal and interest  repayments are such that employee get more flexibility in repayment as per the respective loan schemes.
(iv) Non-Convertible Debentures, Loan from Odisha Government and USD 100 Mn Term Loan: Discounting future cash  flows using rates currently available for items on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities (Excluding floating  rate borrowings).
C. Level 3 Hierarchy:   (i) Unquoted Equity Instruments: Fair values of the unquoted equity instruments have been estimated using Market  Approach or Income Approach of valuation techniques with the help of external valuer.
Valuation as per Market  Approach technique is determined by comparing the company’s accounting ratios with another company’s of the same  nature and size which are considered to be significant to valuation, such as earnings, cash flow, book value, or sales of  various business of the same nature.
Valuation as per Income Approach technique is determined by discounting future  cash flows to present value using a discount rate.
These valuation requires management to use unobservable inputs in  the model, of which the significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in the tables below.
(ii) Non Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares, Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCDs): Fair value of Preference  shares, CCDs is estimated with the help of external valuer by discounting future cash flows.
The valuation requires  management to use unobservable inputs in the model, of which the significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in  the tables below.
Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant  unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
(iii) PMUY Loan: Fair value of PMUY loans is estimated by discounting future cash flows using approximate interest rates  applicable on loans given by Banks duly adjusted for significant use of unobservable inputs in estimating the cash flows  comprising of specific qualitative and quantitative factors like consumption pattern, assumption of subsidy rate etc.
The significant unobservable inputs used in fair value assessment categorised within Level 3 of the Fair Value Hierarchy  together with a quantitative sensitivity analysis as on March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 are shown below: NOTE - 39: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) Description Valuation  technique Significant  unobservable Input Range  (weighted  average) Sensitivity of the  Input to Fair Value I Unquoted Equity  Instruments  Equity Shares  of Haldia  Petrochemicals  Limited (Refer Note-4 for  Carrying Value) Market Approach -    EBITDA Multiple EBITDA Multiple 31.03.24: 7.6x  - 8.0x (7.8x)  31.03.23: 7.3x -  7.7x (7.5x) 0.1x increase/(decrease) in  EBITDA Multiple would result  in increase/(decrease) in fair  value by:  31.03.24: H5.4 crore/ H(5.5)  crore  31.03.23: H12.7 crore/ H(12.7)  crore  II Non Convertible  Redeemable  Preference Shares  Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited Income Approach  - Present Value  Measurement Discount Rate 31.03.24: 6.71%  - 8.71% (7.71%)  31.03.23:  9.77% - 11.77%  (10.77%) 0.5% increase/(decrease) in  Discount Rate would result  in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by:  31.03.24: H(3.4) crore/ H3.3 crore  31.03.23: H(5.0) crore/ H 5.0 crore III Unquoted Equity  Instruments  Share Warrants of  IndianOil LNG Private  Limited   (Refer Note-4 for  Carrying Value) Income Approach  - Present Value  Measurement Discount Rate 31.03.24: 14.6%  - 18.6% (16.6%)  1% increase/(decrease) in  Discount Rate would result  in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by:  31.03.24: H(216.2) crore/   H 234.6 crore IV Compulsorily  Convertible  Debentures   IndianOil LNG Private  Limited Income Approach  - Present Value  Measurement Discount Rate 31.03.23:  11.53%  - 13.53%  (12.53%) 1% increase/(decrease) in  Discount Rate would result  in (decrease)/increase in fair  value by:  31.03.23: H (12.0) crore/ H 12.1  crore Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 282 283  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 39: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) (J in crore) FVTOCI Assets FVTPL Assets Description Unquoted Equity  Instruments Non Convertible  Redeemable  Preference Shares  Compulsorily  Convertible  Debentures  Loan to Suntera  Nigeria 205 Limited  Balance as at March 31 2023  982.14  457.01  3,605.36  -    Addition  3,661.34  -    -    -    Redemption/ Sales  -    -    (3,665.00)  -    Fair Value Changes  (149.19)  36.04  59.64  -    Balance as at March 31 2024  4,494.29  493.05  -    -    (J in crore) Particulars Carrying Value As at  March 31, 2024 As at  March 31, 2023 Indian Gas Exchange Limited 13.36 12.50 Vasitars Private Limited 0.77 0.77 International Cooperative Petroleum Association, New York 0.02 0.02 (J in crore) Particulars  Opening  Balance   Addition  During the Year   Amortized  During the Year   Adjusted  During the Year  Closing  Balance 2023-2024 Deferred Expenses (Refer Note 8)  Loan to employees  830.12  225.52  78.60  -    977.04   PMUY Loan  236.24  -    30.26  1.53  204.45  Deferred Income  Security Deposits  3.08  0.05  1.28  -    1.85   Reconciliation of fair value measurement of Assets and Liabilities under Level 3 hierarchy of Fair Value measurement:  Unquoted Equity Instruments carried at FVTOCI includes following investments for which sensitivity disclosure is not  disclosed: II.
Disclosures relating to recognition of differences between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price  In the following cases, the Company has not recognized gains/losses in profit or loss on initial recognition of financial assets/  financial liability, instead, such gains/losses are deferred and recognized as per the accounting policy mentioned below.
Financial Assets  1.
Loan to Employees   As per the terms of service, the Company has given long term loan to its employees  at concessional interest rate.
Transaction  price is not fair value because loans are not extended at market rates applicable to employees.
Since implied benefit is  on the basis of the services rendered by the employee, it is deferred and recognized as employee benefit expense over  the loan period.
2.
PMUY loan    The PMUY loan is the interest free loan given to PMUY beneficiaries towards cost of burner and 1st refill.
The loan is interest  free and therefore transaction price is not at fair value.
The difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated  in Deferred expenses and amortized over the loan period on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Financial Liabilities  1.
Security Deposits   In case certain deposits payable to deceased employees under one of the superannuation benefit scheme (R2 option) and  security deposits received in relation to some revenue expenses contracts, transaction price is not considered as fair value  because deposits are interest free.
The difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated in Deferred income  and amortized over the tenure of security deposit on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Reconciliation of deferred gains/losses yet to be recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss are as under: NOTE - 39: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS Financial Risk Factors The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise Borrowings, trade and other payables, security deposits,  employee liabilities and lease obligation.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations and  to provide guarantees to support its operations.
The Company’s principal financial assets include loans & advances, trade and other  receivables, short-term deposits and cash / cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
The Company also holds FVTOCI  investments and enters into derivative transactions.
The Company is exposed to a number of different financial risks arising from natural business exposures as well as its use of financial  instruments including market risk relating to interest rate, commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price, credit  risk and liquidity risk.
The Risk Management Committee comprised of senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Company’s senior  management is supported by a Risk Management Compliance Board that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk  governance framework for the Company.
The Risk Management Committee provides assurance to the Board that the Company’s risks  are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the  Company’s policies, risk objectives and risk appetite.
The Company's requirement of crude oil are managed through integrated function handled through its international trade and  optimization department.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the  appropriate skills, experience and supervision.
As per the Company’s policy, derivatives contracts are taken only to hedge the various  risks that the Company is exposed to and not for speculation purpose.
The Board of Directors oversee the risk management activities for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below: A.
Market risk  Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market  prices.
The major components of market risk are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk and other price  risk viz.
equity shares etc.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include Borrowings, Deposits, FVTOCI investments and  derivative financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement  obligations, provisions, and other non-financial assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
1.
Interest Rate Risk    The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows  of a financial instrument, principally financial debt.
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates  relates primarily to the Company’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Company manages to maintain a mix between fixed and floating rates for rupee and foreign currency loans, based on  liquidity, availability of cost effective instruments and considering the market/ regulatory constraints etc.
The Company  also use interest rate swap contracts for managing the interest rate risk of floating interest rate debt.
As at March 31, 2024  approximately 39% of the Company’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (March 31, 2023: 38%).
Pursuant to phasing out of USD LIBOR benchmark, the last date of its publication was 30 th June 2023.
Meanwhile, the  Company has completed the transition exercise of the existing USD LIBOR linked instruments to alternate benchmark.
(J in crore) Particulars  Opening  Balance   Addition  During the Year   Amortized  During the Year   Adjusted  During the Year  Closing  Balance 2022-2023 Deferred Expenses (Refer Note 8)  Loan to employees  817.92  90.06  77.86  -   830.12   PMUY Loan  273.21  27.53  9.44  236.24  Deferred Income  Security Deposits  3.70  0.13  0.75  -    3.08  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 284 285  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Currency of Borrowings Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on profit  before tax   (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on profit  before tax (J in  crore) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 INR +50 (48.94) +50 (69.67) USD +50 (308.86) +50 (339.64) INR -50 48.94 -50 69.67  USD -50 308.86 -50 339.64  Currency Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax   (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax   (J in crore) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Forward Contract - USD +5%  90.54 +5%  123.69  -5%  (90.54) -5%  (123.69) Other Exposures - USD +5%  (5,080.60) +5%  (5,712.97) -5%  5,080.60 -5%  5,712.97  Cross Currency - USD vs. INR +5%  (333.18) +5%  (328.25) -5%  333.18 -5%  328.25    The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected, with all  other variables held constant, on floating rate borrowings is as follows: NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..)  2.
Foreign Currency Risk   For eign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in  foreign exchange rates.
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the  Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency) and Borrowings.
The Company manages its foreign currency risk through combination of natural hedge, mandatory hedging and hedging  undertaken on occurrence of pre-determined triggers.
The hedging is mostly undertaken through forward contracts.
The Company has outstanding forward contract of H 1,810.72 crore as at March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: H 2,473.89 crore)  which has been undertaken to hedge its exposure to borrowings and other financial liabilities.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD/INR exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, the impact on the  Company’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities including non-designated foreign  currency derivatives.
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies other than below is not material.
The effects of most exchange rate fluctuations are absorbed in business operating results which are offset by changing cost  competitiveness, lags in market adjustments to movements in rates to its other non-financial assets like inventory etc.
For  this reason, the total effect of exchange rate fluctuations is not identifiable separately in the Company's reported results.
3.
Commodity Price Risk   The Company is exposed to various commodity price related risk such as Refinery Margins i.e., Differential between the  prices of petroleum products & crude oil, Crude Oil Price fluctuation on accounts of inventory valuation fluctuation and crude  oil imports, etc.
As per approved risk management policy, the Company can undertake refinery margin hedging, inventory  hedging and crude oil price hedging through swaps, options and futures in the OTC market as well as domestic exchanges to  mitigate the risk within the approved limits.
The Company's exposure of various inventories as at the end of the financial year is provided below: In MMT Inventory March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 - Raw Materials 8.389 9.045 - Stock in Process 1.838 1.895 - Finished Products 5.628 5.597 - Stock in Trade 1.744 1.927   Due to variation in prices, the Company incurred total inventory gain of H 1,686.10 crore during the current year (2023: loss of  H 7,857.90 crore).
Category-wise quantitative data about commodity derivative transactions that are outstanding as at the end of the financial  year is given below: NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) Quantity (in lakh bbls) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Margin Hedging Forward contracts  2.25  20.25    The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Crude benchmark price difference/ refinery margin on the outstanding  commodity hedging position as on March 31, 2024: Particulars Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax   (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax   (J in crore) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Margin Hedging +10% (3.55) +10% (32.78) -10% 3.55 -10% 32.78  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Foreign Exchange currency swap  -    360.83  -    235.97  Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans  -    0.25  32.80  -    Interest Rate Swap  -    -    54.35  -    Commodity Forward Contracts - Margin Hedging  2.98  -    130.97  -     4.
Equity Price Risk   The Company’s investment in listed and non-listed equity securities, other than its investments in Joint Ventures/ Associates  and Subsidiaries, are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities.
At the reporting date, the exposure to unlisted equity securities at fair value was H 4,494.29 crore Sensitivity analysis of these  investments have been provided in Note 39.
The exposure to listed equity securities valued at fair value was H 32,622.45 crore An increase/ decrease of 5% in the share  price could have an impact of approximately H 1,631.12 crore on the OCI and equity attributable to the Company.
These  changes would not have an effect on profit or loss.
5.
Derivatives and Hedging   (i) Classification of derivatives    The Company is exposed to certain market risks relating to its ongoing business operations as explained above.
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments.
However, where derivatives  do not meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Information about  the derivatives used by the Company and outstanding as at the end of the financial year is provided below:   (ii) Hedging activities    The primary risks managed using derivative instruments are commodity price risk, foreign currency risk and  interest rate risk.
Commodity Price Risk    IndianOil buys crude and sells petroleum products linked to international benchmark prices and these benchmark  prices do not move in tandem.
This exposes IndianOil to the risk of variation in refining margins which is managed by  margin hedging.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 286 287  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..)    The risk of fall in refining margins of petroleum products in highly probable forecast sale transactions is hedged by  undertaking crack spread forward contracts.
The Company wants to protect the realization of margins and therefore to  mitigate this risk, the Company is taking these forward contracts to hedge the margin on highly probable forecast sale  in future.
Risk management activities are undertaken in OTC market i.e., these are the bilateral contracts with registered  counterparties.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Foreign Currency Risk    The Company is exposed to various foreign currency risks as explained in A.2 above.
As per Company's Foreign  Currency & Interest Rate Risk Management Policy, the Company is required to fully hedge the short term foreign  currency loans (other than revolving lines and PCFC loans) and at least 50%  of the long term foreign currency loans  based on market conditions.
Apart from mandatory hedging of loans, the Company also undertakes foreign currency forward contracts for the  management of currency purchase for repayment of crude/ product liabilities based on market conditions and  requirements.
The above hedging are undertaken through delivery based forward contracts.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Interest Rate Risk    The Company is exposed to interest rate risks on floating rate borrowings as explained in A.1 above.
Company hedges  interest rate risk by taking interest rate swaps as per Company's Interest Rate Risk Management Policy based on  market conditions.
The Company uses interest rate derivatives to hedge exposure to interest payments for floating rate  borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Hedge Effectiveness    There is an economic relationship between the hedged items and the hedging instruments as the terms of the foreign  exchange and commodity forward contracts match the terms of hedge items.
The Company has established a hedge  ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the underlying risk of the foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity  forward contracts are identical to the hedged risk components.
To test the hedge effectiveness, the Company  compares the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments against the changes in fair value of the hedged items  attributable to the hedged risks.
In case of interest rate swaps, as the critical terms of the interest rate swap contracts  and their corresponding hedged items are similar, the Company performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness and  it is expected that the value of the interest rate swap contracts and the value of the corresponding hedged items will  systematically change in opposite direction in response to movements in the underlying interest rates.
Source of Hedge ineffectiveness    In case of commodity price risk, the Company has identified the following sources of ineffectiveness, which are not  expected to be material: 	 Differences in the timing of the cash flows of the hedged items and the hedging instruments 	 Different indexes linked to the hedged risk of the hedged items and hedging instruments 	 The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value movements of the hedging instruments   and hedged items  	 Changes to the forecasted amount of cash flows of hedged items and hedging instruments    In case of foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, the main source of hedge ineffectiveness is the effect of the  counterparty and the Company’s own credit risk on the fair value of hedge contracts, which is not reflected in the fair  value of the hedged items.
The effect of this is not expected to be material.
Disclosures of effects of Cash Flow Hedge Accounting   Hedging instruments   The Company is holding the following hedging instruments: NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) As at March 31, 2024 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to 3  months 3 to 6  months 6 to 12  months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans Nominal amount - 1670.24 - - - 1670.24  Average forward rate (H) - 83.51 - - - Foreign exchange forward contracts- Crude/ Product   Liabilities Nominal amount 140.48 - - - - 140.48  Average forward rate (H) 83.35 - - - - Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount - - - - - - Commodity forward contracts- Margin Hedging Nominal volume (Quantity in lakh bbls) - 0.50 0.75 1.00 - 2.25  Nominal amount - 8.55 12.82 17.10 - 38.47  Average forward rate ($ /bbl) - 20.50 20.50 20.50 - - (J in crore) As at March 31, 2023 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to 3  months 3 to 6  months 6 to 12  months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans Nominal amount  -    -    -    2,473.89  -    2,473.89  Average forward rate (H)  -    -    -    82.46  -    Foreign exchange forward contracts- Crude/  Product  Liabilities Nominal amount  -    -    -    -    -    -    Average forward rate (H)  -    -    -    -    -    Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount  -    -    -    -    1,643.50 1643.50  Commodity forward contracts- Margin Hedging Nominal volume (Quantity in lakh bbls)  -    4.50  6.75  9.00  -    20.25  Nominal amount  -    101.95  152.92  203.89  -    458.76  Average forward rate ($ /bbl)  -    27.57  27.57  27.57  -      The impact of the hedging instruments on the Balance Sheet is as under: (J in crore) Particulars Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liabilities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 Nominal amount 1670.24 2473.89 140.48  -    -   1643.50 38.47 458.76  Carrying amount (0.25) 32.80  -    -    -   54.35 2.98 130.97  Line item in the Balance  Sheet that includes Hedging  Instruments Other Current Financial Assets / (Other Current Financial Liabilities) Change in fair value used for  measuring ineffectiveness for  the period - Gain (Loss) (0.25) 32.80  -   17.91 60.40 54.35 80.86 11.96  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 288 289  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liabilities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 Balance in Cash flow hedge  reserve as at the end of the  year for continuing hedges  (net of tax)  -   -  -    -   0.47 41.14 1.75 97.53  Change in value of the hedged  items used for measuring  ineffectiveness for the period 0.25 (32.80)  -   (17.91) (60.40) (54.35) (80.86) (11.96) (J in crore) Particulars Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liabilities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 March 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 Cash flow Hedge  Reserve at the  beginning of the year  -    -    -    -   41.14 40.24 97.53 (12.92) Total hedging gain/ (loss) recognised in  OCI (34.50) 89.84 1.37 17.91 6.05 45.11 (50.11) 28.61  Income tax on above 8.68 (22.61) (0.34) (4.51) (1.52) (11.35) 12.61 (7.20) Ineffectiveness  recognised in profit  or loss  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Line item in the  statement of profit  or loss that includes  the recognized  ineffectiveness NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Amount reclassified  from OCI to profit or  loss (34.50) 89.84 1.37 17.91 60.40 43.91 77.88 (118.99) Income tax on above 8.68 (22.61) (0.34) (4.51) (15.20) (11.05) (19.60) 29.95  Cash flow Hedge  Reserve at the end of  the year  -    -    -    -   0.47 41.14 1.75 97.53  Line item in the  statement of profit  or loss that includes  the reclassification  adjustments Other  Expenses Other  Expenses Other  Expenses Other  Expenses Finance  Cost Finance  Cost Revenue  from  Operations Revenue  from  Operations   Hedge Items   The impact of the Hedged Items on the Balance Sheet is as follows:   The effect of the cash flow hedge in the Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income is as follows: B.
Credit risk  Trade Receivables  Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control relating  to customer credit risk management.
Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard and  individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored  and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by Letters of Credit, Bank Guarantees or other forms of credit  insurance, wherever required.
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients.
In addition, a large number  of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively.
The Company applies  Simplified approach for providing the expected credit losses on Trade Receivables as per the accounting policy of the Company.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed in Note  10.
The Company evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in  several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not Due Less than  6 months Above 6  months  to 1 year Above 1  year to 2  years Above 2  years to  3 years > 3 years Total Year ended March 31, 2024 Gross Carrying amount  35.10  8,554.71  3,475.10  267.07  224.50  201.06  358.04 13,115.58  Expected loss rate 0.43% 0.41% 2.17% 2.17% 2.29% 1.57% 4.73% Expected credit losses  (0.15)  (35.29)  (75.28)  (4.59)  (5.12)  (3.14)  (10.04)  (133.61) Specific Provision  -    -    -    (55.56)  (0.50)  (0.51)  (145.99)  (202.56) Carrying amount  34.95 8,519.42  3,399.82  206.92  218.88  197.41  202.01 12,779.41  Year ended March 31, 2023 Gross Carrying amount  166.43  7,361.55  6,868.95  831.32  506.23  128.92  306.92 16,170.32  Expected loss rate 0.32% 0.42% 3.22% 3.20% 3.49% 2.77% 3.71%  -   Expected credit losses  (0.54)  (29.09)  (221.51)  (26.63)  (17.66)  (3.54)  (5.87)  (304.84) Specific Provision  -    (48.20)  -    -    (0.21)  (1.02)  (148.66)  (198.09) Carrying amount  165.89 7,284.26  6,647.44  804.69  488.36  124.36  152.39 15,667.39   Other Financial instruments and cash deposits  The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the Balance Sheet at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023  is the carrying amounts as provided in Note 4, 5, 6, 11 & 12.
The Company applies General approach for providing the expected  credit losses on these items as per the accounting policy of the Company.
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in accordance  with the Company’s policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits  assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are approved by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The limits are set to  minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential failure to make payments.
The Company has given loans to PMUY (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana) customers which are shown under Loans in Note-5.
PMUY loans are given to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families as per GOI scheme wherein free LPG connections are issued by  Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) households.
As per the scheme, OMCs  are providing an option for interest free loan towards cost of burner and 1st refill to PMUY consumers which is to be recovered from  the subsidy amount payable to customer when such customers book refill.
In case of certain PMUY loans, the Company has determined that there is significant increase in the credit risk.
The Company  considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of the loan and whether there has been a significant increase in credit  risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period.
It considers past experience and time elapsed since the last refill for  determining probability of default on collective basis.
The Company has categorized the PMUY loans wherein credit risk has  increased significantly under various categories considering the likelihood of default based on time gap since last refill.
ECL is  provided @70% (2023: based on experience factor) in case of time gap since last refill is more than 6 months but not exceeding 12  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 290 291  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) months, @ 80% (2023: @ 80%) in case of time gap since last refill is more than 12 months but not exceeding 18 months, @ 90%  (2023: @ 90%) in case of time gap is more than 18 months but not exceeding 24 months and @ 100% (2023: @100%) for those  consumers who have not taken any refill more than 24 months.
ECL is provided for the loans where the refill is taken within last  6 months (2023: 12 months) based on experience ratio of more than 6 months (2023: 12 months) as above.
The PMUY loans are  classified as credit impaired as on reporting date considering significant financial difficulty in case the customer has not taken any  refill from past 24 months (2023: 24 months).
In case of other financial assets, there are certain credit impaired cases mainly due to breach of contract arising due to default or  bankruptcy proceedings.
The movement in the loss allowance for impairment of financial assets at amortised cost during the year was as follows: (J in crore) 2023-2024 Opening  Balance   A ECL created  during the year   B ECL write  Back   C ECL written  off/ Reclass- ifications  D Closing  Balance  (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected credit losses  304.84     7.28     (178.52)    -       133.60     Specific Provision  198.10     10.23     (2.86)    (2.90)    202.57     Total  502.94     17.51     (181.38)    (2.90)    336.17     Loans 12 Months ECL  241.53     33.08     -       -       274.61     Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  108.75     81.27     -       -       190.02     Life Time ECL- credit impaired  696.21     278.74     (0.02)    0.06     974.99     Total  1,046.49     393.09     (0.02)    0.06     1,439.62     Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.36     0.03     -       -       1.39     Total  1.36     0.03     -       -       1.39     Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  211.42     51.39     (9.14)    (0.44)    253.23     Total  211.42     51.39     (9.14)    (0.44)    253.23     (J in crore) 2022-2023 Opening  Balance   A ECL created  during the year   B ECL write  Back   C ECL written  off/ Reclass- ifications  D Closing  Balance  (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected Credit Loss  232.84     72.53     (0.53)    -       304.84     Specific Provision  163.31     53.97     (17.96)    (1.22)    198.10     Total  396.15     126.50     (18.49)    (1.22)    502.94     Loans 12 Months ECL  196.91     44.62     -       -       241.53     Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  128.76     -       (20.01)    -       108.75     Life Time ECL- credit impaired  556.60     140.46     (0.85)    -       696.21     Total  882.27     185.08     (20.86)    -       1,046.49     Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.42     -       (0.06)    -       1.36     Total  1.42     -       (0.06)    -       1.36     C. Liquidity risk            The Company monitors its risk of shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tool.
The Company seeks to manage its liquidity  requirement by maintaining access to both short term and long term debt markets.
In addition, Company has committed credit  facilities from banks.
The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts,  commercial papers, bank loans, debentures, and leases.
The Company assessed the concentration of risk with respect to  refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low.
The Company has access to a sufficient variety of sources of funding.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual payments.
NOTE – 40: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars On demand Less than  3 months 3 to 12  months 1 to 5  years > 5 years Total Year ended March 31, 2024 Borrowings  7,565.09 22,410.62 45,152.50 32,766.16  8,601.37  1,16,495.74  Lease Obligations  -    1,290.85  1,551.98  3,306.77  3,221.34  9,370.94  Trade payables  9,010.12 42,490.84  -    -    -   51,500.96  Other financial liabilities  38,072.52 15,429.56  1,764.48  224.63  8.48 55,499.67  Financial guarantee contracts*  4,762.47  -    -    -    -    4,762.47  Derivatives  -    361.08  -    -    -    361.08   59,410.20 81,982.95 48,468.96 36,297.56 11,831.19  2,37,990.86  Year ended March 31, 2023 Borrowings  8,505.76 18,369.47 47,462.59 49,937.91  8,219.72  1,32,495.45  Lease Obligations  -    1,041.60  1,345.55  3,190.98  3,476.46  9,054.59  Trade payables  4,319.90 44,356.53  -    -    -    48,676.43  Other financial liabilities  34,587.48 13,436.30  1,010.40  144.24  16.54  49,194.96  Financial guarantee contracts*  3,933.39  -    -    -    -    3,933.39  Derivatives  -    235.97  -    -    -    235.97   51,346.53 77,439.87 49,818.54 53,273.13 11,712.72  2,43,590.79   * Based on the maximum amount that can be called for under the financial guarantee contract.
D. Excessive risk concentration            Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same  geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly  affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Company’s  performance to developments affecting a particular industry.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Company’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on  the maintenance of a diversified portfolio.
Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly.
E. Collateral  As Company has been rated investment grade by various domestic and international rating agencies, there has been no  requirement of submitting any collateral for booking of derivative contracts.
Company undertakes derivatives contract only with  those counterparties that have credit rating above the internally approved threshold rating.
Accordingly, Company does not seek  any collaterals from its counterparties.
(J in crore) 2022-2023 Opening  Balance   A ECL created  during the year   B ECL write  Back   C ECL written  off/ Reclass- ifications  D Closing  Balance  (A+B+C+D) Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  222.23     6.48     (17.26)    (0.03)    211.42     Total  222.23     6.48     (17.26)    (0.03)    211.42     Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 292 293  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Borrowings  1,16,495.74  1,32,495.45  Equity Share Capital  13,771.56  13,771.56  Reserves and Surplus  1,62,943.42  1,20,985.98  Equity  1,76,714.98  1,34,757.54  Debt Equity Ratio 0.66 : 1 0.98 : 1 (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Amount remaining unpaid at the year end - Principal *  2,296.30  1,524.23  - Interest on above Principal  -    -    No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the financial year ended March 31, 2024  and March 31, 2023.
NOTE–42: DISCLOSURES AS REQUIRED BY REGULATION 34(3) OF SEBI(LODR) REGULATIONS, 2015 (J in crore) Particulars Amount as at Maximum Amount outstanding  during the year ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 I.
Loans and Advances in the nature of loans: A) To Subsidiary Companies  -    -    -    -    B) To Associates /Joint Venture  (i) Petronet V. K. Limited  112.55  112.55  112.55  113.29  (ii) Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited.
A  178.85  176.20  178.85  176.20  (iii) IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited  15.00  15.00  15.00  15.00  C) To Firms/Companies in which directors are interested  -    -    -    -    II.
Investment by the loanee (as detailed above) in the  shares of IOC and its subsidiaries  -    -    -    -    A As per the applicable provisions of Indian Accounting Standards, the loan given to Suntera Nigeria 205 Ltd.  is measured  at fair  value through the Statement of Profit and Loss in the financial statements and fair value of the loan is NIL as at March 31, 2024  (2023: NIL).
Refer Note -39 for further details regarding  fair valuation.
NOTE–43: DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES The dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 to the  extent information available with the Company is given below: NOTE – 44  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Research and Development Expenses of  H 606.00 crore (2023: H 409.26 crore) have been accounted as capital expenditure and H 340.14  crore (2023 : H 288.95 crore) have been accounted for in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the year.
Detailed break up of total  expenditure are as under: A.
Capital Expenses (Property, Plant and Equipment) (J in crore) S.   No.
Asset Block  Gross  Block as  at April 1,  2023 Additions  during  the year Transferred  from CWIP Transfer/ Deduction/  Disposal  during the  year Gross  Block as  at March  31, 2024 Work-in- Progress  as at  April 1,  2023 Additions  during  the year Transferred  to Fixed  Assets  (Capitalized) Work-in- Progress  as at  March  31, 2024 Total Capital  Expenditure 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 =  (3+4+5-6) 8 9 10 11 =  (8+9-10) 12=(4+5+11-8) (a) Property, Plant and  Equipment 1 Land - Free Hold  373.43  -    -    -    373.43  -    -    -    -    -    2 Building, Roads etc.
113.65  0.41  1.33  0.98  114.41  405.30  397.68  18.00  784.98  381.42  3 Plant & Equipment 1,087.13  52.93  74.35  25.97  1,188.44  93.76  211.55  128.84  176.47  209.99  4 Office Equipment  54.63  9.40  1.15  3.00  62.18  -    -    -    -    10.55  5 Transport Equipment  0.14  0.03  -    0.01  0.16  -    -    -    -    0.03  6 Furniture & Fixtures  19.85  0.84  -    0.48  20.21  -    -    -    -    0.84  7 Drainage & Sewage  1.42  -    -    -    1.42  -    -    -    -    -    8 ROU Asset  0.81  0.31  -    -    1.12  -    -    -    -    0.31  Sub Total 1,651.06  63.92  76.83  30.44  1,761.37 499.06  609.23  146.84  961.45  603.14  (b) Intangible Assets 1 Licences / Technical  Know-how  0.11  -    13.59  -    13.70  -    -    -    -    13.59  2 Computer Software  45.48  2.85  -    0.02  48.31  16.41  0.01  13.59  2.83  (10.73) Sub Total  45.59  2.85  13.59  0.02  62.01  16.41  0.01  13.59  2.83  2.86  Total 1,696.65  66.77  90.42  30.46  1,823.38 515.47  609.24  160.43  964.28  606.00  (J in crore) S.   No.
Asset Block  Gross  Block as  at April 1,  2022 Additions  during  the year Transferred  from CWIP Transfer/ Deduction/  Disposal  during the  year Gross  Block as  at March  31, 2023 Work-in- Progress  as at  April 1,  2022 Additions  during  the year Transferred  to Fixed  Assets  (Capitalized) Work-in- Progress  as at  March  31, 2023 Total Capital  Expenditure 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 =  (3+4+5-6) 8 9 10 11 =  (8+9-10) 12=(4+5+11-8) (a) Property, Plant and  Equipment 1 Land - Free Hold  373.43  -    -    -    373.43  -    -    -    -    -    2 Building, Roads etc.
107.76  0.18  6.21  0.50  113.65  151.67  259.84  6.21  405.30  260.02  3 Plant & Equipment  901.43  32.28  158.26  4.84  1,087.13  174.28  77.74  158.26  93.76  110.02  4 Office Equipment  41.34  11.62  2.84  1.17  54.63  0.03  2.81  2.84  -    14.43  5 Transport Equipment  0.06  0.08  -    -    0.14  -    -    -    -    0.08  6 Furniture & Fixtures  17.37  1.17  1.76  0.45  19.85  0.96  0.80  1.76  -    1.97  7 Drainage & Sewage  1.42  -    -    -    1.42  -    -    -    -    -    8 ROU Asset  0.38  0.43  -    -    0.81  -    -    -    -    0.43  Sub Total 1,443.19  45.76  169.07  6.96 1,651.06 326.94 341.19  169.07 499.06  386.95  NOTE–41: CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the company’s capital management is to maximise the shareholder value.
Capital includes issued equity  capital, share premium and all other equity reserves, attributable to the equity shareholders, for the purpose of the Company’s  capital management.
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and requirements.
The  Company determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans.
The  Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares to maintain or adjust  the capital structure.
The Company monitors capital using debt equity ratio, which is borrowings divided by Equity.
The Company’s  endeavour is to keep the debt equity ratio under 1:1.
NOTE–43: DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Payments made during the year after the due date        - Principal*  -    -    - Interest  -    -    Interest due and payable for principals already paid  -    -    Total Interest accrued and remained unpaid at year end  -    -    Further Interest remaining due and payable in succeeding year  -    -    *Amount of H 885.78 crore (2023: H 504.56 crore) included in Note 17: Other Financial Liabilities.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 294 295  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 44  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS (Contd..) NOTE–45: DISCLOSURE RELATING TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) EXPENDITURE (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 1 Consumption of Stores, Spares & Consumables  19.42  12.10  2 Repairs & Maintenance  (a) Plant & Machinery  16.77  14.46   (b) Building  9.92  7.44   (c) Others  3.38  2.47  3 Freight, Transportation Charges & demurrage  0.24  0.21  4 Payment to and Provisions for employees  196.11  162.66  5 Office Administration, Selling and Other Expenses  94.26  89.53  6 Interest  0.04  0.08  Total  340.14  288.95  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year (2% of Avg Net  Profit as per Section 135(5)) 428.90  351.07  Surplus arising out of CSR Project  -    -    Set Off Available from Previous Years  6.48  93.52  Total CSR Obligation for the year 422.42 257.55 Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year  462.11  309.52  Amount Spent during the Year  457.71  264.03  Set Off available for succeeding years  35.29  6.48  Amount Unspent during the year  -    -    (J in crore) 2023-2024 2022-2023 Particulars In cash Yet to be paid  In cash** Total In cash Yet to be paid  In cash** Total (i) Construction/acquisition of any assets  -    -    -    -    -    -    (ii) On purposes other than (i) above Health and Sanitation  193.50  16.40  209.90  92.65  30.04  122.69  Contribution towards PMUY  16.50  -    16.50  3.80  -    3.80  Flagship Projects-CSR  21.50  1.95  23.45  20.67  0.22  20.89  Educational Scholarship  2.64  0.25  2.89  4.50  0.02  4.52  Swachh Bharat  16.87  0.53  17.40  7.47  -    7.47  Education/employment vocational skills  39.39  4.31  43.70  34.81  2.53  37.34  Drinking Water  3.01  0.87  3.88  2.09  0.06  2.15  Promotion of National Heritage, Art and Culture  70.82  -    70.82  12.60  0.27  12.87  COVID 19  0.09  -    0.09  2.11  -    2.11  Administration Expenses, training etc.
21.79  -    21.79  12.56  -    12.56  Impact Assessment  0.23  -    0.23  0.22  -    0.22  Other expenses  41.90  5.16  47.06  36.49  0.92  37.41  Total Expenses (ii)  428.24  29.47  457.71  229.97  34.06  264.03  Grand Total (i) and (ii)  428.24  29.47  457.71  229.97  34.06  264.03  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Capital Expenditure  606.00  409.26  Recurring Expenditure  340.14  288.95  Total  946.14  698.21  B. Recurring Expenses C. Total Research Expenses NOTE–45: DISCLOSURE RELATING TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) EXPENDITURE (a) The disclosure in respect of CSR Expenditure is as under: (b) Amount spent during the year on:  **Provisions made for liabilities incurred NOTE–46: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS A.
Revenue Grants 1 Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) and LPG (Domestic)  Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) in India amounting to H 93.80 crore (2023: H 197.84 crore) and subsidies on sales of LPG  (Domestic) to customers in Bhutan amounting to H 5.80 crore (2023: H 6.73 crore) have been reckoned as per the schemes notified  by Governments.
2 Export of Notified Goods under MEIS Claims/RoDTEP/Duty Drawback scheme  The Company has recognised  H 37.62 crore (2023: H 47.98 crore) on export of notified goods under Merchandise Exports from  India Scheme (MEIS)/ Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP)/Duty Drawback scheme in the Statement  of Profit and Loss as Revenue Grant.
3 Stipend to apprentices under NATS/NAPS scheme  As per Ministry of HRD & Skill development and Entrepreneurship, a portion of stipend and basic training cost for apprentices will  be reimbursed to employer by Government under National Apprenticeship Training Scheme (NATS) and National Apprenticeship  Promotion Scheme (NAPS), subject to prescribed threshold limit.
The Company has recognised grant in respect of stipend paid to  apprentices & Basic training cost under NATS & NAPS amounting to H 7.93 crore (2023: H 8.85 crore) as Revenue Grant.
4 Grant  in respect of revenue expenditure for research projects  During the year, the Company has received revenue grant of H 0.47 crore (2023: H 2.05 crore) in respect of meeting out revenue  expenditure such as Manpower, Consumables, Travel & Contingency etc.
for research projects undertaken with various agencies.
5 Incentive on sale of power  The Company is getting incentive from Department of Renewable Energy, GOI for wind power generation of Electricity at the rate of   H 0.50 paise for per unit of power generated.
The Company has received grant of  H 1.46 crore during the current year (2023: H 2.19 crore).
6 Excise duty benefit in North East  Excise duty exemption of 50% of goods manufactured and cleared from north east refineries has been reckoned at full value  in revenue and on net basis in expenses under 'Excise Duty' (to the extent of duty paid).
Financial impact for the current year is    H 3,816.73 crore (2023: H 3,886.45 crore).
(J in crore) S.   No.
Asset Block  Gross  Block as  at April 1,  2022 Additions  during  the year Transferred  from CWIP Transfer/ Deduction/  Disposal  during the  year Gross  Block as  at March  31, 2023 Work-in- Progress  as at  April 1,  2022 Additions  during  the year Transferred  to Fixed  Assets  (Capitalized) Work-in- Progress  as at  March  31, 2023 Total Capital  Expenditure 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 =  (3+4+5-6) 8 9 10 11 =  (8+9-10) 12=(4+5+11-8) (b) Intangible Assets 1 Licences / Technical  Know-how  0.11  -    -    -    0.11  -    -    -    -    -    2 Computer Software  38.06  7.03  -    (0.39)  45.48  1.13  15.28  -    16.41  22.31  Sub Total  38.17  7.03  -    (0.39)  45.59  1.13  15.28  -    16.41  22.31  Total 1,481.36  52.79  169.07  6.57 1,696.65 328.07 356.47  169.07 515.47  409.26  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 296 297  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 Viability Gap Funding (VGF)  The Company has received grant in the form of interest free loans from Orissa Government for a period of 15 years.
The unamortized  grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 2,901.21 crore (2023: H 2,654.75 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised   H 241.15 crore (2023: H 208.56 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of grants.
8 Grant for under recoveries in Domestic LPG  The company has received one-time grant of Nil (2023: H10,801 crore) from Government of India for under-recoveries incurred on  sale of Domestic LPG during FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23 which is recognised as Revenue from Operations in the statement of  Profit & Loss (Refer Note 23).
B.
Capital Grants 1 OIDB Government Grant for strengthening distribution of SKO (PDS)  The Company has received  government grant from OIDB (Oil Industry Development Board)  for strengthening distribution of PDS  Kerosene as per the directions of MoP&NG to be used in construction of 20KL underground Tank, Mechanical Dispensing Units  and Barrel Shed.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at  March 31, 2024 is  H 0.31 crore (2023: H 0.46 crore).
During the year,  the Company has recognised H 0.15 crore (2023: H 0.13 crore)  in Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
2 Capital Grant in respect of Excise duty, Custom duty and GST waiver  The Company has received grant in respect of Custom duty waiver on import on capital goods, Excise duty waiver and GST waiver  on purchase of goods from local manufacturer in India under the certificate issued by Department of Scientific and Industrial  Research (DSIR).
The unamortized capital grant amount as at  March 31, 2024 is H 49.48 crore (2023: H 61.63 crore) The goods so  imported or procured from local manufacturer shall not be transferred or sold for a period of five years from date of installation.
During the year, the Company has recognised H 11.92 crore (2023: H 12.82 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation  of capital grants.
However, the scheme of GST concession on purchase of goods from local manufacturer under certificate issued  by DSIR has been discontinued from 18.07.2022 and accordingly no new grant has been recognised thereafter in this regard.
3 Capital Grant in respect of Research projects  The Company has received capital grant from various agencies in respect of procurement/ setting up of Capital assets for  research projects undertaken.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at  March 31, 2024 is H 7.64 crore (2023: H 7.45 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised H 1.75 crore (2023: H 2.14 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation  of capital grants.
4 Capital Grant in respect of Entry Tax Exemption from Odisha Govt.
Entry Tax exemption received from Odisha Government for Paradip Refinery Project has been recognized as Capital Grant and  grossed up with the concerned Assets.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at  March 31, 2024 is H 89.55 crore (2023:   H 94.88 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised H 5.34 crore (2023: H 5.34 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss  as amortisation of capital grants.
5 Capital Grant in respect of demonstration unit  Grant received from OIDB/CHT/USTDA for setting up units for Ethanol production from Refinery off gases/Ligncoellulosic Biomass  at Panipat Refinery.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at  March 31, 2024 is H 305.42 crore (2023: H 311.92 crore).
During  the year, the Company has recognised H 6.50 crore (2023: H 0.54 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of  capital grants.
6 Capital Grant in respect of construction of units using Indigenous Technology   Grant received from OIDB for setting up of demonstration unit at Guwahati refinery with the company's R&D developed IndaDeptG  technology .
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at  March 31, 2024 is H 57.57 crore (2023: H 61.30 crore).
During the year,  the Company has recognised H 3.72 crore (2023: H4.21 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
7 Capital Grant in respect of interest subsidy  The Company has received capital grant in respect of interest subsidy on loans taken from OIDB.
The unamortized capital grant   amount as at  March 31, 2024 is H 10.3 crore (2023: H 10.81 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised H 0.52 crore (2023:  H 0.52 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
NOTE–46: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS (Contd..) NOTE–46: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS (Contd..) 8 Capital Grant in respect of Solar Power Generation  The Company has received capital financial assistance from Ministry of New and Renewable Energy in respect of procurement  and installation of Solar Panels for Power Generation.
The unamortized capital grant amount as at  March 31, 2024 is H 3.38 crore  (2023: H 3.59 crore).
During the year, the Company has recognised H 0.19 crore (2023: H 0.19 crore) in the Statement of Profit and  Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
9 Capital Grant from Nepal Government  The Company has received grant from Nepal Government by way of waiver of Local taxes on goods/services procured locally in  Nepal and Import Duty for goods/services imported into Nepal.
The Company has recognised H 1.14 crore (2023: H 1.14 crore)  in  Statement of Profit & Loss.
The unamortized balance is H 13.29 crore (2023: H 10.55 crore)  10 Capital Grant for establishing EV Charging Station (EVCS) at Retail Outlets  The Company had received grant from Ministry of Heavy Industries (MHI) for establishing EV Charging stations (EVCS) at ROs  under Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME) India Scheme Phase-II in March 2023.
Out of total sanctioned  amount of H 364.00 crore, H 254.80 crore was received in advance and balance amount will be received on commissioning of all  EVCS.
Since the work has not completed as on March 31, 2024 no amount is recognised in the statement of Profit and loss during  the year.
The unamortized balance as at  March 31, 2024 is H 364.00 crore (2023: H 254.80 crore).
MHI has further sanctioned additional grant of H 25.28 crore vide letter dated 31.03.2024 for upgradation/deployment of existing  EV Chargers under phase II of FAME India Scheme.
Out of the sanctioned amount, H 17.69 crore has been received in April 2024  and balance amount will be received after assessment of actual cost incurred.
Since the work has not started as on March 31,  2024, no amount is recognised in the statement of Profit and loss during the year.
The unamortized balance as at March 31, 2024  is H 25.28 crore (2023: NIL).
NOTE–47: REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS The Company is in the business of oil and gas and it earns revenue primarily from sale of petroleum products, Petrochemicals, Gas, E&P  and Others.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods and services is transferred to the customer.
Generally, Company enters into contract with customers:  a.
On delivered basis in case of Retail Sales, LPG and Aviation.
b.
On Ex-Marketing Installation as well as delivered basis in case of Lubes and Consumers.
c. On FOB or CIF basis depending on terms of contract in case of Export sales.
Majority of Company’s sales are to retail category which are mostly on cash and carry basis.
Company also execute supply to Institutional  Businesses(IB), Lubes , Aviation on credit which are for less than a year.
For maintaining uninterrupted supply of products, customers generally deposit amount in advance with the Company against which  orders for purchase of products are placed by the customers.
Based on these orders, supply is maintained by the Company and  revenue is recognized when the goods are delivered to the customer by adjusting the advance from customers.
Revenue in cases  of performance obligation related to delivered sales are recognized in time based on delivery of identified and actual goods and no  significant judgement is involved.
The Company also extends volume/slab based discounts to its customers on contract to contract basis for upliftment of products  and it is adjusted in revenue as per the terms of the contract.
Company also runs loyalty programmes and incentive schemes for its  retail and bulk customers.
Loyalty points are generated and accumulated by the customers on doing transactions at Company's outlet  which can be redeemed subsequently for fuel purchases from Company outlets.
Revenue is recognized net of these loyalty points and  incentive schemes.
Besides this, though not significant, the Company also undertakes construction contracts on deposit basis.
Revenue is recognized for  these contracts overtime using input based on cost incurred.
Similarly non-refundable deposits received from Retail Outlets (ROs) are  recognized as revenue over time on proportionate basis.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 298 299  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Total Revenue (A+D)  8,66,345.38  9,34,952.66  Revenue from contract with customers (A)  8,64,512.39  9,22,756.93   Recognized from contract liability balance of previous year (B)  3,052.58  4,379.37   Recognized from contracts initiated in current year (C)  8,61,459.81  9,18,377.56  Revenue from other contracts/from others (D)  1,832.99  12,195.73  (J in crore) Particulars Receivables Contract Asset Contract Liability Opening Balance  15,667.38  -    6,512.81  Closing Balance  12,779.41  -    5,299.51  An amount of H 15.31 crore (2023: H 126.10 crore) on account of impairment losses on receivables is recognised under the head  Impairment Loss on Financial Assets on the face of Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company discloses information on reportable segment as per Ind AS 108 under Note 38 - Segmental Information.
An amount of   H 655.20 crore (2023: H 628.94 crore) is recognised over time under Revenue from contract with customers.
The Company has applied practical expedient as per IndAS 115 in case of delivered sales, advance from customers where the  performance obligation is part of the contract and the original expected duration is one year or less and in case of construction  contracts/deposit works wherein the company has a right to consideration from customer that correspond directly with the value of  the entity's performance completed for the customer.
Particulars Numerator Denominator 2023-2024 2022-2023 % Variance Reason for Variance Trade Receivables  Turnover (Times) Sales (Net of  Discounts)  Average Trade  Receivables   60.60  54.43 11% Net Capital Turnover  (Times) *  Sales (Net of  Discounts)  Average Working  Capital (i.e., Current  Assets - Current  Liabilities)   (14.85)  (19.13) (22%) Net Profit Ratio (%) Profit after Tax Revenue from  Operation  4.57% 0.88% 419% Variation majorly on  account of increase  in profitability  as compared to  previous year.
Return on Capital  Employed (%) Profit before Tax +  Finance Cost   Average of (Total  Equity + Total Debt  + Deferred Tax  Liabilities)  20.17% 6.19% 226% Return on Investment  (%) Closing Value  of Investment  + Dividend  during the year  - (Opening Value  of Investment  + Additional  Investment during  the year)  Opening Value  of Investment  + (Additional  Investment during  the year - Dividend  during the year)/2  - Equity in Subsidiary/  Associates & JVs 4.83% 9.18% (47%) Variation majorly  on account of  decrease in  dividend receipt  during the year - Equity in Others 84.66% 2.30% 3588% Variation majorly  on account of  change in fair value  of investment.
- Preference Shares 15.73% (0.62%) 2619% - Govt.
Securities (Non- current+Current) 6.66% 2.80% 138% - Debentures or Bonds 16.76% 6.48% 159% NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT 2013 1.
Ratios NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd..)  * In line with EAC opinion received in FY 2018-19, Security Deposits amounting to H 31,952.39 crore (2023: H 30,580.72 crore) obtained from LPG consumers  are consistently treated as current liabilities as the Company does not have unconditional right to defer settlement of the same upon demand from consumers.
However, based on past experience, it is observed that there is net increase in security deposits and refund claim from consumers is insignificant.
Bifurcation of Total Revenue into Revenue from contract with customers and other sources of revenue as per requirement  of Ind AS is given below: Particulars Numerator Denominator 2023-2024 2022-2023 % Variance Reason for Variance Current Ratio (Times) * Current Assets Current Liabilities  0.69  0.74 (7%) Debt Equity Ratio  (Times) Total Debt (i.e.,  Non-Current  Borrowings  + Current  Borrowings)  Total Equity  0.66  0.98 (33%) Variation majorly on  account of increase  in profitability  resulting in  increase in equity  and reduction  in borrowings  as compared to  previous year.
Debt Service Coverage  Ratio (Times) Profit after Tax +  Finance Cost in  P&L + Depreciation  Finance Cost (P&L  + Capitalised) +  Lease & Principal  Repayments (Long- term)   2.17  1.30 67% Variation majorly on  account of increase  in profitability  as compared to  previous year.
Return on Equity (%) Profit after Tax Average Total  Equity  25.44% 6.20% 311% Inventory Turnover  (Times) Sales (Net of  Discounts)  Average Inventory  7.62  8.48 (10%) Trade Payables Turnover  (Times) Purchase of  Raw Material +  Purchase of Stock- in-Trade + Other  Expenses  Average Trade  Payables   13.81  17.94 (23%) NOTE–47: REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 300 301  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd..) 2 Title deeds of Immovable Property not held in the name of the Company A Cases continuing from previous year: (J in crore) Relevant line  item in the  Balance sheet Description of item of  property Gross carrying value Title deeds held in the name of Whether title deed  holder is a promoter,  director or relative of  promoter/ director  or employee of  promoter/ director Property  held since  which date Under  Dispute  (Yes/ No) Reason for not being held in the name of the companyMarch 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 Land PPE Land allotted by Govt.
of  Assam  0.16  0.16 Government of Assam No 1962 No Land measuring 60.50 Acre not registered in the name of IOCL, GR for which follow- up is being made with the government Land Freehold- Refinery  0.20  0.20 Government of Bihar No 1959 Yes Govt.
of Bihar instituted a certificate case against Barauni Refinery for realization of  the additional cost of Registration charges towards stamp and registration fee for the  conveyance deed executed by Govt.
of Bihar in favour BR.
The matter related to the  claim of District Authorities, for additional cost of Registration charges, is pending  with the Hon’ble High Court, Patna.
Land at Mathura Refinery  10.18  10.18 Government of Uttar Pradesh No 1977 No Approval for lease deed & execution is pending at the level of Department of Industries,  UP Govt., Lucknow.
Land of Calico Mill, Baroda  31.99  31.99 Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation No 2006 Yes Case is pending in High Court Land-Freehold  0.40  0.40 GIDC & Others No 1962 No Transfer execution pending.
Leased land at Paradip  32.37  32.37 Government of Orissa No 2010 No Transfer of land in name of IOCL is under process Leased land at Dahej  8.69  8.29 Not available No 31.12.2016 No Transfer of land in name of IOCL is under process.
Land  0.02  0.02 RAMAVATHI/ LEGAL HEIRS No 20-03-1995 Yes Title Appeal has been filed before Jharkhand High Court.
Approval for the same is  under process.
Land*  0.00  0.00 RAMAVATHI/ LEGAL HEIRS No 28-04-1995 Yes Title Appeal has been filed before Jharkhand High Court.
Approval for the same is  under process.
Land  0.10  0.10 Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited No 01-10-1990 No The land has been registered in the name of BPCL.
BPCL has demarcated 77,540.00  Sqm of land in the name of IOCL.
CTMPL-RCP station Land  at Reddimangudii*  0.00  0.00 Nalluswamy Ramar No 30-05-2005 No Purchase price of the private- government land parcel has not been fixed by State  Government.
Land  0.52  0.52 Kerala state Government (GCDA) No 31-03-2003 No Following up is being made with Govt.
Secretary and GCDA for registration.
Land  5.77  5.77 Indian Railways No 31-03-1994 Yes The said land had been exchanged with railways for construction of railway siding  and the same had not been registered.
However a person had disputed the title in  the court claiming that they have registered documents to portion of the land (400  Sq.Yards) .
Pending the decision of the Railways and the legal case, IOC is unable to  go ahead with the registration of land.
ROU - Leasehold Land   (3 cases)  0.08  0.08 TISCO No 14-11-1996 No The Land has been awarded to TISCO during British Govt.
Embargo from State Govt.
over Subleasing to IOCL.
ROU - Leasehold Land  0.01  0.01 TISCO No 14-12-1996 No The Land has been awarded to TISCO during British Govt.
Embargo from State Govt.
over Subleasing to IOCL.
ROU - Leasehold Land  0.12  0.12 TISCO No 19-11-1996 No The Land has been awarded to TISCO during British Govt.
Embargo from State Govt.
over Subleasing to IOCL.
ROU - Leasehold Land (38  cases)  394.24  394.24 IAF No 30-08-2011 No AFS Umbrella Agreement/MOU, but no individual Agreement for various AFS Locations.
ROU - Leasehold Land  1.94  1.94 Mumbai Port Trust No 01-04-1998 NO A letter was submitted to MbPT Chairman office requesting waiving of interest on  arrear and renewal of expired lease.
The concerned location is following up with  MbPT .
ROU - Leasehold Land  22.67  0.10 Tuticorn Port Trust No 31-07-1998 Yes The lease agreement not yet signed due to dispute with  Tuticorin Port Trust on  incorporation of MGT clause Land*  0.00  0.00 Not available No 01-01-1959 No Title Deed is not traceable.
Re-generation of title deed is in process for making an  application to Sub registrar.
ROU - Leasehold Land  128.38  128.38 JNPT No 08-07-2022 No Title deed is pending for execution due to disagreement between parties for start date  of agreement Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 302 303  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Relevant line  item in the  Balance sheet Description of item of  property Gross carrying value Title deeds held in the name of Whether title deed  holder is a promoter,  director or relative of  promoter/ director  or employee of  promoter/ director Property  held since  which date Under  Dispute  (Yes/ No) Reason for not being held in the name of the companyMarch 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 PPE Building NBCC_Type VI Flats &  Parking_Kidwai Nagar  20.42  20.42 NBCC No 11-10-2018 No Under process to be registered through Land &Development Office, Ministry of  Housing and Urban Affairs NBCC Commercial Space  231.02  231.02 NBCC No 10-08-2018 No Under process to be registered through Land &Development Office, Ministry of  Housing and Urban Affairs NBCC_Building_Type V  Flats  17.67  17.67 NBCC No 25-09-2019 No Under process to be registered through Land &Development Office, Ministry of  Housing and Urban Affairs Building  14.65  14.65 Govt.
of West Bengal No 26-07-1989 No The executed deed was not registered after taking over the building.
Mutation of this  plot of Land & Building is not available.
Building  0.01  0.01 M/s Bonny Enterprise No 01-04-1984 No No one from Bonny Enterprises traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise is closed.
Therefore, Title Deed cannot be executed.
We are paying the Municipal Tax regularly  and are also in possession of Flats since inception.
Building  0.04  0.04 M/s Bonny Enterprise No 16-05-1983 No No one from Bonny Enterprises traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise is closed.
Therefore, Title Deed cannot be executed.
We are paying the Municipal Tax regularly  and are also in possession of Flats since inception.
Building (3 cases)  0.05  0.05 M/s Bonny Enterprise No 29-04-1985 No No one from Bonny Enterprises traceable.
Probably Bonny enterprise is closed.
Therefore, Title Deed cannot be executed.
We are paying the Municipal Tax regularly  and are also in possession of Flats since inception.
Building  0.06  0.06 Mukund Constructions No 29-02-1984 Yes Matter under Litigation for execution of sale deed (J in crore) Relevant line  item in the  Balance sheet Description of item of  property Gross carrying value Title deeds held in the name of Whether title deed  holder is a promoter,  director or relative of  promoter/ director  or employee of  promoter/ director Property  held since  which date Under  Dispute  (Yes/ No) Reason for not being held in the name of the companyMarch 31,  2024 March 31,  2023 PPE Freehold Land  7.88  -   Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited No 31-05-2019 No IOC, BPC & HPC are developing  a common user facility at Meramundali with BPC as  lead partner.
Land was purchased by BPC in its name and as per the CUF agreement  the ownership land should be transferred to all the partner as per there share in CUF.
Now BPCL is in the advance stage for transferring the ownership to both partners.
Freehold Land*  0.00  -   Burmah Oil Company Limited No 31-03-2022 No Mutation is pending.
Freehold Land  0.10 APIIC No 18-01-1997 Yes 4 plots in Industrial park Kakinada were allotted to IOCL for setting up of LPG Godown  and Showroom.
However, after few years, APIIC intimated the cancellation of 3 plot  allotments due to non utilizations of the plots along with refund.
IOCL is taking up the  issue with APIIC for withdrawal of cancellation order.
ROU - Leasehold Land  0.36  -   SAIL No 10-02-2016 No Lease renewal SD and premium has  been paid and renewal is under process ROU - Leasehold Land  0.15 SAIL No 09-05-2004 No Lease renewal SD and premium has  been paid and renewal is under process B Cases added during the year: NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd..) (J in crore) Relevant line  item in the  Balance sheet Description of item of property Gross carrying value Title deeds held in the name of Whether title deed holder is a promoter, director or relative of  promoter/ director or employee of promoter/ director Property held since which date Under Dispute   (Yes/ No)March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 PPE Land ROU - Leasehold Land*  0.00 MP Government No 31-08-1994 No ROU - Leasehold Land (2 cases) 0.46 MP Government No 01-04-1994 No ROU - Leasehold Land*  0.00 Northern Coalfields Limited No 17-07-1992 No ROU - Leasehold Land  0.12 Not available No 31-12-1993 No C Cases settled during the year: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 304 305  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd..)  *Following's carrying value is not reflected above due to rounding off: Description of item of property Title deeds held in the name of Gross carrying value (In J) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Land RAMAVATHI/ LEGAL HEIRS 25540 25540 ROU - Leasehold Land Northern Coalfields Limited 1 1 ROU - Leasehold Land MP Government 23459 23459 Land Burmah Oil Company Limited 1 1 Land CTMPL-RCP station Land at Reddimangudii 30000 30000 Land Not available 24416 24416 Amount in J Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions  with struck off company Balance outstanding  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 3I Computers Private Limited Payables  11,300.00  11,300.00  Adiansh Engineers Private Limited Payables  -    4,737.00  Aditya Inkjet Technologies Private Limited Payables  1,892.39  1,892.39  Amstar Infrastructure India Private Limited Payables  1,689.85  1,689.85  Anurag Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Aoa Energy International Private Limited Payables  52,900.00  52,900.00  A P Construction Private Limited Payables  1,25,644.33  -    Atlas Plastic Private Limited Payables  -    -    Bharati Instrumentation Private Limited Payables  52.00  52.00  Bombay Studios Private limited Payables  11,966.00  1,07,516.00  BRM Petrochem Private Limited Payables  -    -    Cape Valour Services Private Limited Payables  31,81,569.46  31,81,569.16  Chauhan Transport Private Limited Payables  1,81,296.27  1,81,296.27  CIG Softtech India Limited Payables  (40,500.00)  (40,500.00)  Creative Consortium Private Limited Payables  -    -    Dashmesh Transport Co Private Limited Payables  9,84,240.14  -    Decent Services Private Limited Payables  -    -    Delhi Public School Private Limited Payables  15,83,480.59  79,03,665.00  Deva Enterprises Limited Payables  -    -    Diaprix Web Solution Private Limited Payables  22,118.00  22,118.00  DLS Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Elite Octane Motoring Private Limited Payables  -30,510.00  -    Ensival Moret India Private Limited Payables  2,000.00  2,000.00  Fame Enterprises Private Limited Payables  1,88,117.00  86,425.00  First Office Solutions India Private Limited Payables  14,100.00  14,100.00  Gmplus Engineering Private Limited Payables  -    -    Gopal Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Grand Marshall Engineers Private Limited Payables  12,537.00  12,537.00  Gupta Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Heritage Tours And Travels Private Limited Payables  -    -    Hotel Dynasty Private Limited Payables  7,680.00  7,680.00  Ideal Logistics Private Limited Payables  9,78,073.79  -    Informatics E-Tech (India) Limited Payables  15,139.16  12,789.98  Jay Kay Motors Private Limited Payables  -    672.00  Kamal Electrical Private Limited Payables  45,42,128.97  13,12,865.08  Kamrupinyae Infrastructures Private Limited Payables  (6,57,101.43)  (6,57,101.43)  Kanti Enterprises Private Limited Payables  (3,402.00)  -    Kashvi Industries Private Limited Payables  -    -    KDC Infra Projects Private Limited Payables  -    -    Kingpin Infratech Private Limited Payables  -    15,056.00  Krishna Sales Private Limited Payables  1,30,620.24  1,25,955.90  Krithi Apparels Private Limited Payables  -    -    3 Relationship with Struck off Companies NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd..) Amount in J Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions  with struck off company Balance outstanding  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Linear Point Surveys Private Limited Payables  (1,440.00)  (1,440.00)  M.P .
Marketing Private Limited Payables  -    -    Maurya Software Private Limited Payables  -    -    Maxtel India Private Limited Payables  6,054.79  23,624.15  Microsys Technoware Solutions Private Limited Payables (6,078.24)  -    Murthy Electronics Private Limited Payables  2,541.44  2,541.44  Nalanda Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Neelam Private Limited Payables  -    -    Neha Enterprises Private Limited Payables  39,964.00  -    P .K Graphics Private Limited Payables  -    -    Pacific Laboratories Private Limited Payables  -    -    Padavi Engineers & Pressure Vessels Private Limited Payables  34,545.00  34,545.00  Paonta Technologies & Solutions Private Limited Payables  5,520.00  5,520.00  Parihat Ventures Private Limited Payables  -    -    Phoenix Marketing Private Limited Payables  -    -    Prabhat Associates Private Limited Payables  -    -    Pranay Enterprise Private Limited Payables  10,799.64  -    Priya Plastics Private Limited Payables  -    -    Raj Communication Private Limited Payables  -    -    Raj Services Private Limited Payables  -    -    Ramdev Enterprise Private Limited Payables  -    -    RGM Signs & Displays Private Limited Payables  -    38,029.00  Risknowlogy Solutions Private Limited Payables  6,900.00  6,900.00  Rudransh Enterprises Private Limited Payables  9,477.00  -    S H Enterprises India Private Limited Payables  -    -    S R Lab Instruments India Private Limited Payables  4,931.37  -    S. S. Constructions Private Limited Payables  2,08,349.12  1,38,436.06  S.S. Trading Company Private Limited Payables  -    -    Sai Associates Private Limited Payables  -5,000.40  -    Sandhu Transport Co Private Limited Payables  7,85,376.54  -    Shree Sai Ip Consultant Private Limited Payables  1,63,720.00  -    Shree Salasar Rent A Car Private Limited Payables  35,871.00  35,871.00  Shubhgayatri Ventures(Opc) Private Limited Payables  6,22,654.99  4,86,365.00  Sirius Transtech Private Limited Payables  28,570.00  28,570.00  Siya Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    SKPEI Engineering Works Private Limited Payables  (657.27)  (657.27)  Social Buzz Technologies Private Limited Payables  -    -    Spacescape Design Consultants Private Limited Payables  1,08,550.00  1,08,550.00  Spectacular Advertising & Events Private Limited Payables  10,931.00  10,931.00  Techtrix Controls Chennai Private Limited Payables  7,314.48  2,01,143.07  The Royal Park Hotel Private Limited Payables  18,017.20  24,159.70  Trishul & Om Construction Private Limited Payables  60,000.00  -    Unique Energies Private Limited Payables  -    8,175.00  Upavan Restaurant Private Limited Payables  19,52,123.76  19,72,038.73  V.K Traders Private Limited Payables  -    -    Valase Roadlines Private Limited Payables  9,58,948.63  -    Verma Associates Private Limited Payables  -    -    Vidhoo Industrial Service Private Limited Payables  2,107.00  2,107.00  Waaree Mm Petro Tech Private Limited Payables  2,21,798.00  2,74,634.00  Aprajeeta Infra Developers Private Limited Receivables  1,395.00  1,395.00  Arch Triad Consultants Private Limited Receivables  (23,854.24)  -    Birendra Nag Construction Private Limited Receivables  900.00  900.00  Dharamveer Construction & Infra Private Limited Receivables  6,331.70  12,072.90  Idha E Tail Arks Private Limited Receivables  (65.00)  (65.00)  Khazina Digital Private Limited Receivables  3,00,000.00  5,07,000.00  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 306 307  NOTES TO STANDALONE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amount in J Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions  with struck off company Balance outstanding  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Palimar Foods Private Limited Receivables  (20,674.34)  -    Rudra Parwati Engineering Private Limited Receivables  2,523.00  2,523.00  Salai Energy Solutions Private Limited Receivables  4,36,510.98  4,23,766.98  Singh Brothers Construction Private Limited Receivables  -    1,111.00  Technopal Polychem Private Limited Receivables  -    -    The Barnagore Jute Factory Company Limited Receivables  2,48,051.24  1,56,999.00  Yumiko Global Infratech Private Limited Receivables  5,000.00  5,000.00  NOTE - 48: ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT 2013 (Contd..)  Details of Struck-off investors holding equity shares in the Company: Name of the struck off company March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 No.
of shares held Paid up Share  Capital (In J) No.
of shares held Paid up Share  Capital (In J) Aakil Leasing Limited                                           120  1,200.00 120  1,200.00  Haresh Extrusion Company Private Limited                    1188  11,880.00 1188  11,880.00  Hermoine Financial Solutions Private Limited                600  6,000.00 600  6,000.00  JSK Finvest Private Limited                                       648  6,480.00 648  6,480.00  Kothari Intergroup Limited                                     42  420.00 42  420.00  Market Probe India Private Limited                          30  300.00 30  300.00  Raghukul Shares India Private Limited                               3  30.00 3  30.00   Note: The Company does not have any relationship with the above mentioned struck-off companies.
NOTE–49: OTHER DISCLOSURES 1 In order to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families, Government has approved “Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY)” scheme  where free LPG connections are issued by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below Poverty Line  (BPL) households as per SECC -2011 (Rural) database.
The scheme was launched on May 1, 2016.
As per the scheme, the initial  cost towards connection charges (Refundable deposit) would be borne by the Central Government for each card holder.
Few State  Governments have also extended this scheme to other beneficiaries.
As per the scheme, OMCs would provide an option for EMI/ Loans towards cost of burner and 1st refill to the PMUY consumers.
The loan amount is to be recovered from the subsidy amount  payable by the government to the customers on each refill sale.
During the year, discounting of the loan has been done based on  assumption of average refills in a year and average subsidy rate per cylinder under respective range of subsidy buckets.
The amount of outstanding as at March 31, 2024 towards PMUY claim from Central Government is H 279.69 crore (2023: H 46.30  crore) and loan to PMUY consumers is H 2367.12 crore (2023: H 2567.27 crore) (net of recovery through subsidy).
Against the  above loan, a provision for doubtful  loans amounting to H 1159.40 crore (2023: H 766.38 crore) has been created as at March 31,  2024 against the beneficiaries who have not taken any refill for more than 6 months (2023: 12 months)  based on expected credit  loss(ECL) model and applying experience factor based on experience ratio of doubtful provision on more than 6 months (2023: 12  months) to the loans in less than 6 months (2023: 12 months) category.
(Also refer Credit Risk under Note 40)  The Company has remeasured the gross carrying amount of PMUY loan as at Balance Sheet date based on revised estimated  future contractual cash flows resulting in addition in PMUY loans by H 336.61 crore (2023: Reduction by H 41.51 crore) which has  been accounted in Statement of Profit and Loss in NOTE -24 under the head "Other Income  (2023: Note - 29.1 under the head"  Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets”)".
2 The Purchases of Stock-in-Trade during the year includes provision for “Pay for, if not used obligation” (UoP) under regasification  agreement with Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) amounting to H 188.96 crore as the company was not able to utilise the committed  capacity booked for contract year 2023.
A similar provision of H227.08 crore was made in 2022-23 for contract year 2022 and  recently PLL has agreed to allow the company to use the unutilised quantities of contract year 2022 till the end of contract year  2025 and to waive UoP charges to the extent of usage.
NOTE–49: OTHER DISCLOSURES (Contd..) 3 Purchase of crude oil from Bombay High, Panna Mukta and some other small oilfields has been accounted for provisionally  pending finalisation of agreements with respective parties.
The management estimates that no significant adjustments will arise  upon finalisation of these agreements.
4 There are no significant subsequent events that would require adjustments or disclosures in the Financial Statements as at  Balance Sheet date, other than those disclosed above.
5 Previous year's comparative figures have been regrouped wherever necessary.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions/losses.
For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/-  Sd/- Sd/-  S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For SRB & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-   Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 308 309  INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED  MARCH 31, 2024 ON PROVISION OF TOWNSHIP , EDUCATION, MEDICAL AND OTHER FACILITIES SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (TOWNSHIP)  FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Income : 1.
Recovery of House Rent  15.57  16.68  2.
Recovery of Utilities-Power and Water  0.24  4.46  3.
Recovery of Transport Charges  0.07  0.06  4.
Other Recoveries  8.36  7.71  5.
Excess of Expenditure over Income  750.26  761.77  Total :  774.50  790.68  Expenditure : 1.
Employee Benefit Expenses  280.36  170.37  2.
Consumable Stores and Medicines  112.29  103.23  3.
Repairs and Maintenance  193.90  161.22  4.
Finance Cost  34.80  33.08  5.
Depreciation & Amortization  42.04  39.83  6.
Miscellaneous Expenses  66.50  71.14  7.
Utilities-Power, Water and Gas  10.84  151.03  8.
Rent  1.19  1.27  9.
Subsidies for Social & Cultural Activities  23.01  46.66  10.
Bus Hire Charges  0.39  0.50  11.
Club and Recreation  -    0.01  12.
Others  9.18  12.34  Total:  774.50  790.68  (J in crore) Particulars Gross  Block as at  01.04.2023 Additions  during the  year Transfers  from  Capital  work-in- progress Disposals/  Deductions/  Transfers/  Reclassifications Gross  Block as at  31.03.2024 Depreciation  Block as on  01.04.2023 Depreciation  &  Amortization  during the  year Depreciation  on deduction &  reclassification Depreciation &  Amortization  As at  31.03.2024   Net Block As at 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 Land Freehold  141.15  0.13  -    (3.16)  138.12  -    -    -    -    138.12  141.15  Land- Leasehold  17.67  0.75  -    0.46  18.88  2.61  1.46  0.30  4.37  14.51  15.06  Buildings,  Roads etc.
1,061.10  9.51  93.51  65.22  1,229.34  261.84  30.69  9.94  302.47  926.87  799.25  Plant &  Equipment  79.50  1.93  11.56  (6.01)  86.98  31.26  4.27  (3.65)  31.88  55.10  48.23  Office  Equipment  33.85  1.74  6.56  (5.62)  36.53  25.28  4.08  (4.88)  24.48  12.05  8.57  Furniture &  Fixtures  20.42  0.36  1.85  (3.36)  19.27  11.74  1.52  (0.51)  12.75  6.52  8.68  Drainage,  Sewage &  Water Supply  Systems  0.92  -    -    (0.14)  0.78  0.14  0.02  -    0.16  0.62  0.79  Transport  Equipment  1.39  -    -    -    1.39  0.88  -    -    0.88  0.51  0.51  Grand Total :  1,355.99  14.42  113.48  47.39  1,531.29  333.75  42.04  1.20  376.99  1,154.30  1,022.24  Previous Year :  1,315.01  18.97  30.40  (8.39)  1,355.99  294.69  39.83  (0.77)  333.75  1,022.24  KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants   12-B Baldota Bhavan, 117, Maharshi Karve Road Mumbai – 400020 K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants  3/15, Asaf Ali Road, 4thFloor  Near Delite Cinema, New Delhi - 110002 S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants A 3/7,  Gillander House 8,  N.S.
Road, Kolkata - 700001 KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants  Fortuna Tower, Room No.40, N.S.
Road, Kolkata - 700001 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT To   The Members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the  Holding Company”) and its Subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”), its Joint Ventures and Associates, which comprise of  the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive  Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended on that  date, and notes to the consolidated financial statements including, a summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory  information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of  reports of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and  associates as referred to in the “Other Matter” Paragraphs 2 and 3, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information  required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with Indian  Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015, as  amended and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its Joint Ventures  and Associates as at March 31, 2024, and its consolidated profit including other comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity  and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under  section 143(10) of the Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the  Audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates  in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), together with the ethical  requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made  there under, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports  referred into paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Other Matters paragraphs below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit  opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial  statements of the current year.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a  whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have determined the matters  described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report: Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets There are areas where management judgement impacts  the carrying value of property, plant and equipment,  intangible assets and their respective depreciation/ amortisation rates.
These include the decision to  capitalise or expense costs; the annual asset life review;  the timeliness of the capitalisation of assets and the use We assessed the controls in place over the fixed asset cycle, evaluated the  appropriateness of capitalisation process, performed tests of details on  costs capitalised, the timeliness of the capitalisation of the assets and the  de- recognition criteria for assets retired from active use.
In performing these procedures, we reviewed the judgements made  by management including the nature of underlying costs capitalised;  determination of realizable value of the assets retired from active use; the  appropriateness of assets lives applied in the calculation of depreciation; CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 311 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24310 Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters Since judgement of the management is required to  determine whether there is indication of possible  impairment and considering the subjectivity of the  estimates relating to the determination of the cash flows  and the key assumptions of the impairment test, the area  is considered as a key audit matter.
Analysis of actual data of the year and previous years in comparison  with the original plan, in order to assess the nature of variances and  the reliability of the planning process.
Assessment of the reasonableness of the discount rate  and growth rate.
Verification of the mathematical accuracy of the model used to  determine the value in use of the investments.
We also examined the adequacy of the information provided by the  Company about the impairment test and its consistency with the  requirements of Ind AS 36.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information.
The other information comprises  the information included in the Financial Performance highlights, Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, Management  Discussions and Analysis, Business Responsibility Report, Report on Corporate Governance, Shareholders Information and other  information in Integrated Annual Report but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of  assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and identified  above when it becomes available, and in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated  financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we  have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
If, based on the work we have performed, and report of the other auditors as furnished to us (refer paragraphs 2 and 3 of other matter  para below), we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have  nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the remaining other information, which we will obtain after the date of auditors’ report and if we conclude that there is  material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial  statements in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated  financial performance, total comprehensive income, consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and consolidated Statement of  Cash Flows of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,  including the Indian Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, of its Joint Ventures and Associates are responsible for  maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group,  its Joint Ventures and Associates for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate  accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance  of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting  records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free  from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated  financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, its Joint  Ventures and Associates are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates to continue as a  going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless  management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, its Joint Ventures, and Associates, are responsible for  overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates.
Key Audit Matters Auditors’ response to Key Audit Matters of management assumptions and estimates for the  determination or the measurement and recognition criteria  for assets retired from active use.
Due to the materiality in  the context of the Balance Sheet of the Group and the level  of judgement and estimates required, we consider this to  be as area of significance.
the useful lives of assets prescribed in Schedule II to the Act and the  useful lives of certain assets as per the technical assessment of the  management.
We observed that the management has regularly reviewed  the aforesaid judgements and there are no material changes.
Provision for Direct Taxes The Group has uncertain direct tax positions including  matters under dispute which involves significant judgment  relating to the possible outcome of these disputes in  estimation of the provision for income tax.
Because of the  judgement required, this area is considered as a key audit  matter.
Our audit procedures involved assessment of the management’s underlying  assumptions in estimating the tax provision and the possible outcome  of the disputes taking into account the legal precedence, jurisprudence  and other rulings in evaluating management’s position on these uncertain  direct tax positions.
We have also assessed the disclosures made by the  company in this regard in consolidated financial statements.
Provisions and Contingent Liabilities The Group is involved in various taxes and other disputes  for which final outcome cannot be easily predicted and  which could potentially result in significant liabilities.
The  assessment of the risks associated with the litigations  is based on complex assumptions, which require the  use of judgement and such judgement relates, primarily,  to the assessment of the uncertainties connected to the  prediction of the outcome of the proceedings and to the  adequacy of the disclosures in the standalone financial  statements.
Because of the judgement required, the  materiality of such litigations and the complexity of the  assessment process, this area is considered as a key audit  matter.
Our audit procedures in response to this Key Audit Matter included, among  others, 	 Assessment of the process and relevant controls  implemented to identify legal and tax litigations and pending  administrative proceedings.
Assessment of assumptions used in the evaluation of potential  legal and tax risks performed by the legal and tax department of  the Company considering the legal precedence and other rulings  in similar cases.
Inquiry with the legal and tax departments regarding the status  of the most significant disputes and inspection of the key  relevant documentation.
Analysis of opinion received from the experts wherever available.
Review of the adequacy of the disclosures in the notes to the  consolidated financial statements.
Investments in Joint Ventures and Associates Investments in Joint ventures and associates which  are valued at cost have been adjusted for impairment  losses in line with “Ind AS 36 Impairment of assets”.
In  case there is an indication of possible impairment, the  Company carries out an impairment test by comparing  the recoverable amount of the investments determined  according to the value in use method and their carrying  amount.
The valuation process adopted by management  is complex and is based on a series of assumptions, such  as the forecast cash flows, the appropriate discounting  rate and the growth rate.
These assumptions are, by  nature, influenced by future expectations regarding the  evolution of external market.
With reference to this key audit matter, we considered the following: 	 Book value of the investments in Joint venture and associates as  compared to the carrying amount.
Market capitalization in case of listed entities in which investments  have been made.
Some of the entities are still in the construction stage and have not  begun commercial operations.
Based on the information and explanations obtained as above, we  concluded that the Management’s judgement regarding indication of  impairment in certain investments during the year is appropriate.
Where  there is indication of impairment,   we   examined   the   approach   taken    by management to determine the value of the investments, analysed  the methods and assumptions applied by management to carry out the  impairment test and the reports obtained from the experts in valuation.
The following audit procedures were adopted: 	 Identification and understanding of the significant controls  implemented by the Company over the impairment testing process;  analysis of the reasonableness of the principal assumptions made  to estimate their cash flows and obtaining other information from  management that we deemed to be significant.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 312 313  (out of which 11 Blocks are relinquished) in India and overseas and have been certified by the management.
Our opinion in respect  thereof is solely based on the management certified information.
According to the information and explanations given to us by the  Company’s management, these are not material to the Company.
2.
We did not audit the financial statements of 9 subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements, whose financial  statements reflect total assets of J 43,006.89  crore as at March 31, 2024, total income of J 91,730.59  crore and net cash  inflows amounting to J 149.27 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements.
The  consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net Loss of J 12.33 crore for the year ended March 31, 2024, as  considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of 20 joint ventures and 2 associates, whose financial statements  / financial information have not been audited by us.
These financial statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports  have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to  the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and our report in terms of  sub-sections (3) and (11) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates,  is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
3.
The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of J 353.33 crore  for the year ended March  31, 2024, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of 5 joint ventures, whose financial statements /  financial information have not been audited by us.
These financial statements / financial information are unaudited and have been  furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts  and disclosures included in respect of these joint ventures and our report in terms of sub- sections (3) and (11) of Section 143  of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid joint ventures , is based solely on such unaudited financial statements / financial  information.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, this financial  statements / financial information is not material to the Group.
The consolidated audited financial statements also include the Group’s share of total net profit of J434.59  crore for year ended  31st March 2024 as considered in the consolidated audited financial Statements, in respect of 1 Associate, based on their interim  financial information, which have not been audited by their auditors and is as informed by the management of the Associate.
4.
Certain of these subsidiaries and joint ventures are located outside India whose financial statements and other financial  information have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries and  which have been audited by other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries.
The Company’s management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiaries and joint ventures located outside  India from the accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted  in India.
These converted financial statements have been certified by Chartered Accountants in India appointed by the Company  for the specific purpose and have been relied upon by us.
Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of such  subsidiaries and joint ventures located outside India is based on the reports of other Chartered Accountants as mentioned above.
5.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 were audited by the previous joint  statutory auditors of the Company and they had expressed an unmodified opinion on Consolidated Financial Statements vide their  report dated 16 May 2023.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements is not modified in respect of the above matters.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1.
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate  financial statements and on the other financial information of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, as noted in “Other  Matters” paragraph above, we report, to the extent applicable, that:  a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were  necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial  statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors/ chartered accountants.
c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income),  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report  are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated  financial statements.
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified under  Section 133 of the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material  misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high  level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement  when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could  reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the  audit.
We also: 	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,  design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to  provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting  from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate  in the circumstances.
Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the  Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates which are companies incorporated in India, has adequate internal financial controls with  reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures  made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence  obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the  Group, its Joint Ventures, and Associates to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we  are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such  disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our  auditors’ report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group, its Joint Ventures and Associates controlled entities  to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure, and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures,  and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves  fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the  Group, its Joint Ventures, and Associates to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for  the direction, supervision, and performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated  financial statements of which we are the independent auditors.
For the other entities included in the consolidated financial  statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and  performance of the audits carried out by them.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated  financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the  audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding  independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our  independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance  in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these  matters in our Auditors’ Report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare  circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so  would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters 1.
The consolidated financial statements include the Holding Company’s proportionate share (relating to Jointly controlled operations  of E&P activities, wherein the company is not an operator) in assets J 907.18 crore and liabilities J 219.25 crore as at March 31,  2024 and total income of J 174.19 crore and profit before tax of J 60.07 crore for the year ended on that date and in items of the  statement of cash flow and related disclosures contained in the enclosed consolidated financial statements.
Our observations  thereon are based on unaudited statements from the operators to the extent available with the Company in respect of 28 Blocks  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 314 315     b) The interim dividend declared and paid by the Holding Company during the year and until the date of this report is  in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
c) The Board of Directors of the Holding Company has proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the  approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
The dividend declared is in accordance with  section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
vi.
Based on our examination, which included test checks, and that performed by the respective auditors of the subsidiaries,  associates and joint ventures which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited  under the Act, except for the instances mentioned below, the company, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have  used an accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log)  facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software.
Further,  during the course of our audit, we and respective auditors of the above referred subsidiaries, associates and joint  ventures/joint operations did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
a) Instances of accounting software for maintaining its books of account  which did not had a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility  and the same was not operated throughout the year for all relevant  transactions recorded in the software In case of 1 Associate and 5 Joint  ventures b) Instances of audit trail feature being tampered with 2.
With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 3(xxi) and 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (the “Order”/  “CARO”) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, to be included in the Auditor’s report, according  to the information and explanations given to us, and based on the CARO reports issued by us for the Holding company and by the  respective auditors of the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, we report: Sr.  No.
Name CIN Holding/Subsidiary/  Associate/Joint  Venture Clause no.of the  CARO report which is  qualified or Adverse 1 Indian Oil Corporation Ltd L23201MH1959GOI011388 Holding Company Clause ix(d) 2 Petronet VK Limited U23200GJ1998PLC034144 Associate Clause xix 3 Indian Oil Skytanking Private Limited U11202KA2006PTC040251 Joint Venture Clause vii(b) 4 Avi Oil  India  Private Limited U23201DL1993PTC190652 Associate Clause ii(a) 5 Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited U25190DL2010PTC205324 Joint Venture Clause xi(a) Sr.  No.
Name of the Company CIN Relationship 1 Petronet LNG Limited L74899DL1998PLC093073 Associate 2 GSPL India Transco Ltd (GITL) U40200GJ2011SGC067450 Joint Venture 3 GSPL India Gasnet Ltd (GIGL) U40200GJ2011SGC067449 Joint Venture 4 Hindustan Urvark & Rasayan Ltd. U24100DL2016CPL358399 Joint Venture 5 Paradeep Plastic Park Limited U241000R2013SGC016970 Joint Venture 6 IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited U42201DL2023PTC415225 Joint Venture  In respect of the following company included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company, whose Audit under Section  143 of the Act has not yet been completed, the CARO as applicable in respect of these components were not available.
For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/N500377 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn No.
001420S/S200034 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 UDIN: 24511596BKGFTR8929 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 UDIN: 24550715BKCYRH5212 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 UDIN: 24053960BKGFQG7876 Sd/- Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 UDIN: 24029082BKABEL2497 Place: New Delhi Date: 30th April 2024  e) On the basis of the reports of the statutory auditors of subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates incorporated in India,  none of the directors of joint ventures and associates incorporated in India is disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being  appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
We are informed that the provisions of Section 164(2) of the Act  are not applicable to the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India being Government companies  in terms of notification no.
G.S.R.463(E) dated 5th June 2015 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company,  its subsidiary companies, joint ventures, and associates incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such  controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure 1”.
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with the requirements of section  197(16) of the Act, as amended:   We are informed that the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, relating to managerial remuneration  are not applicable to the Holding Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in India, being Government Companies in  terms of Ministry of Corporate Affairs Notification no G.S.R.
463(E) dated 5 th June, 2015.
On the basis of the reports of the  statutory auditors of the Joint Ventures and Associates incorporated in India, the remuneration paid by the Joint Ventures  and Associates to its directors during the current year is in accordance with the Section 197 of the Act and the remuneration  paid to any director is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act.
h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit  and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us  and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on the financial statements of the subsidiary companies,  joint ventures and associates and management certified financial statements, as noted in other matter paragraph:   i.
The consolidated financial statements disclosed the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial position  of the Group, its joint ventures, and associates (Refer Note 33 B and 37 B to the consolidated financial statements).
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or Indian  Accounting Standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long term contracts including derivative contracts.
Refer Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection  Fund by the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates incorporated in India, during the  year ended March 31, 2024.   iv.
(a) The respective Managements of the Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India,  whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us that, to the best of their  knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or  loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the   Company or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”),  with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly  lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company or  any of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the  Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(b) The respective Managements of the Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India,  whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us that, to the best of their  knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by  the Company or any of such subsidiaries from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”),  with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company or any of such subsidiaries  shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on  behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the  Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,  nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii)  of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement   v. As stated in Note 32 to the Consolidated financial statements:    a) The final dividend paid by the Holding Company during the year in respect of the same declared for the previous  year is in compliance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividends.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 316 317  Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of  collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject  to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in  conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion In our opinion the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates which are incorporated in India, have, in  all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements reporting and such internal financial  controls with reference to financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024 , based on the internal control over  financial reporting criteria established by the Group considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance  Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matter Our aforesaid reports under section 143(3) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial control  with reference to financial statements insofar as it relates to 1 subsidiary, 22 joint ventures and associates which are companies  incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding standalone/consolidated reports of the auditors, as applicable, of such companies  incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/N500377 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn No.
001420S/S200034 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 UDIN: 24511596BKGFTR8929 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 UDIN: 24550715BKCYRH5212 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 UDIN: 24053960BKGFQG7876 Sd/- Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 UDIN: 24029082BKABEL2497 Place: New Delhi Date: 30th April 2024 Annexure 1 to the Independent Auditors’ Report On the Consolidated Financial Statements of even date to the members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year  ended March 31, 2024 (Referred to in paragraph 1 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’) Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section  3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended March 31, 2024 we  have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (hereinafter referred  to as “Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies (collectively referred to as “the Group”) joint ventures and associates, which are  companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures and associates which are companies  incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control with  reference to financial statements criteria established by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates which  are companies incorporated in India, considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit  of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ the ICAI”).
These  responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating  effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the  safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,  and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding  Company, its subsidiary companies, joint ventures, and associates which are companies incorporated in India, based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the  “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section  143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls both issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and  the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance  about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements was established and maintained and if such  controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference  to financial statements and their operating effectiveness.
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements  included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a  material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed  risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of  the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, and audit evidence obtained by other auditors in term of their reports is sufficient  and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the  Holding Company, its subsidiaries, its joint ventures and associates, which are companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to financial statements A company’s internal financial control with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance  regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal financial control with reference to financial statement includes  those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect  the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as  necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts  and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company;  and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the  company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 318 319  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 21  76,660.67  76,801.88   ii) Lease Liabilities  2,842.00  2,385.35   iii) Trade Payables 22   A.
Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises  1,423.70  1,024.97    B.
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small  Enterprises  58,030.40  53,709.16   iv) Other Financial Liabilities 17  50,604.91  45,445.56  b) Other Current Liabilities 20  15,240.85  17,085.11  c) Provisions 18  10,628.26  10,156.28  d) Current Tax Liabilities 7  954.37  29.37   2,16,385.16  2,06,637.68  Liabilities directly associated with the Assets Held for Sale 13  18.77  11.06   2,16,403.93  2,06,648.74  Total Equity and Liabilities  4,82,362.00  4,41,718.48  Material Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 48 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For S R B  & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 ASSETS Non-current Assets a) Property, Plant and Equipment 2  1,92,159.52  1,76,532.05  b) Capital Work-in-Progress 2.1  57,316.86  47,550.08  c) Goodwill - On Consolidation  1.04  1.04  d) Intangible Assets 3  3,837.23  3,514.48  e) Intangible Assets Under Development 3.1  3,715.56  3,583.39  f) Investments accounted for using the equity method 4  18,097.00  18,038.31  g) Financial Assets  i) Investments 4  37,065.04  23,715.61   ii) Loans 5  2,586.98  2,270.11   iii) Other Financial Assets 6  2,355.15  1,748.36  h) Income Tax Assets (Net) 7  1,827.98  1,857.22  i) Other Non-Current Assets 8  4,951.37  4,070.95   3,23,913.73  2,82,881.60  Current Assets a) Inventories 9  1,21,375.83  1,21,107.58  b) Financial Assets  i) Investments 4  10,379.86  10,436.54   ii) Trade Receivables 10  13,831.45  16,398.69   iii) Cash and Cash Equivalents 11  1,246.59  996.35   iv) Bank Balances other than above 12  1,912.20  1,100.29   v) Loans 5  492.94  394.73   vi) Other Financial Assets 6  2,758.38  2,361.13  c) Current Tax Assets 7  0.82  11.15  d) Other Current Assets 8  5,266.55  5,046.99   1,57,264.62  1,57,853.45  Assets Held for Sale 13  1,183.65  983.43   1,58,448.27  1,58,836.88  Total Assets  4,82,362.00  4,41,718.48  EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity a) Equity Share Capital 14  13,771.56  13,771.56  b) Other Equity 15  1,69,644.71  1,25,948.68  c) Non Controlling Interest  4,746.71  3,494.10   1,88,162.98  1,43,214.34  Liabilities Non-current Liabilities a) Financial Liabilities  i) Borrowings 16  46,792.90  63,312.94   ii) Lease Liabilities  6,331.99  6,476.91   iii) Other Financial Liabilities 17  233.11  160.79  b) Provisions 18  1,414.82  1,396.44  c) Deferred Tax Liabilities (Net) 19  18,960.70  16,800.42  d) Other Non-Current Liabilities 20  4,061.57  3,707.90   77,795.09  91,855.40  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 320 321  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2023-2024 2022-2023  Total Comprehensive Income for the Year (Comprising Profit/ (Loss)  and Other Comprehensive Income for the Year) attributable to:  Equity holders of the Parent  54,709.05  9,492.42   Non-Controlling Interest  1,460.10  1,923.48  XII.
Earnings per Equity Share (J): 32  (1) Basic  30.30  7.11   (2) Diluted  30.30  7.11   Face Value Per Equity Share (H)  10  10   Material Accounting Policies, Estimates & Judgements 1A & 1B  Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements 2 - 48 For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-   S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For S R B  & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 (J in crore) Particulars Note No.
2023-2024 2022-2023 I.
Revenue From Operations 23  8,81,235.45  9,51,409.94  II.
Other Income 24  3,842.85  4,261.70  III.
Total Income (I+II) 8,85,078.30 9,55,671.64  IV.
Expenses:  Cost of Material Consumed 25  4,46,251.39  5,03,757.28   Excise Duty  1,04,883.60  1,09,654.03   Purchases of Stock-in-Trade  1,91,316.43  2,50,434.50   Changes in Inventories of Finished Goods, Stock-in-trade and   Work-In-Progress 26  1,231.34  (6,329.71)  Employee Benefits Expense 27  11,670.94  9,359.14   Finance Costs 28  7,825.65  7,541.36   Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on :   a) Property, Plant and Equipment  15,603.44  12,888.89    b) Intangible Assets  262.67  292.16   15,866.11  13,181.05   Impairment Loss (including reversal of impairment loss) on  Financial Assets  270.57  375.49   Net Loss on de-recognition of financial assets at amortised cost  3.90  307.84   Other Expenses 29  50,016.51  53,215.16   Total Expenses (IV)  8,29,336.44  9,41,496.14  V. Profit / (Loss) before Share of profit/(loss) of an associate/ a joint  venture (III-IV)  55,741.86  14,175.50  VI.
Share of profit/(loss) of associates/ joint ventures  1,545.93  862.19  VII.
Profit / (Loss) before Tax (V+VI)  57,287.79  15,037.69  VIII.
Tax Expense:  Current Tax  12,895.91  1,922.46   Deferred Tax  1,230.73  1,410.97  IX.
Profit / (Loss) for the year (VII-VIII)  43,161.15  11,704.26   Profit / (Loss) for the Year attributable to :  Equityholders of the Parent  41,729.69  9,792.12   Non-Controlling Interest  1,431.46  1,912.14  X.
Other Comprehensive Income: 30  A (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  14,494.12  (1,544.02)  A (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to   profit or loss  (971.85)  (14.44)  B (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss  (582.39)  1,199.59   B (ii) Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to   profit or loss  68.12  70.51  XI.
Total Comprehensive Income for the Year (IX+X) (Comprising Profit/  (Loss) and Other Comprehensive Income for the Year)  56,169.15  11,415.90  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 322 323  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 E1 Cash & Cash Equivalents as at end of the year  1,246.59  996.35  In Current Account  954.33  615.76  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  264.58  346.51  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  25.40  28.12  Cheques, Drafts in hand  1.31  5.41  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.97  0.55  E2 Less: Cash & Cash Equivalents as at the beginning of year  996.35  1,176.59  In Current Account  615.76  1,141.76  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  346.51  4.85  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  28.12  18.01  Cheques, Drafts in hand  5.41  11.46  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.55  0.51  Net Change in Cash & Cash Equivalents (E1 - E2)  250.24  (180.24) Notes: 1.
Significant non-cash movements in investing and financing activities during the year include:  (a) acquisition of assets by way of lease (net of upfront premium) 3312.89 2762.56  (b) issue of bonus shares  - 4707.08  (c) unrealised exchange loss/ (gain) on borrowings and lease liabilities 881.54 4045.46 2.
Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using Indirect Method as per Indian Accounting Standard-7: Statement of Cash Flows.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 A Cash Flow from Operating Activities: 1 Profit / (Loss) Before Tax  57,287.79  15,037.69  2 Adjustments for: Share of Profit of Joint Ventures and Associates  (1,545.93)  (862.19) Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on Property, Plant & Equipment and  Intangible Assets  15,866.11  13,181.05  Loss/ (Profit) on Assets sold or written off (Net)  (33.29)  66.12  Amortisation of Capital Grants  (31.85)  (27.89) Provision for Probable Contingencies (net)  (38.83)  166.26  Fair Value loss/(gain) on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit  and loss  (92.37)  (1.81) Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  (329.35)  (83.91) Derecognition of Financial Assets and Advances & Claims written off  5.25  319.03  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims and Stores (net)  147.85  46.90  Impairment Loss on Financial Assets (Net)  270.57  375.49  Loss/(Gain) on Derivatives  (84.09)  357.76  Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans through OCI  (43.30)  (111.47) Exchange Loss/ (Gain) on Borrowings and Lease Liabilities  1,141.55  4,896.59  Interest Income  (2,046.09)  (2,544.34) Dividend Income  (1,198.16)  (1,623.12) Finance costs  7,825.65  7,541.36  Amortisation and Remeasurement (Net) of PMUY Assets  (306.35)  69.04   19,507.37  21,764.87  3 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes (1+2)  76,795.16  36,802.56  4 Change in Working Capital (excluding Cash & Cash Equivalents): Trade Receivables & Other Assets  (44.96)  (7.40) Inventories  (312.28)  (9,390.83) Trade Payables & Other Liabilities  6,565.69  3,708.89  Change in Working Capital  6,208.45  (5,689.34) 5 Cash Generated From Operations (3+4)  83,003.61  31,113.22  6 Less : Taxes paid  11,904.98  1,469.50  7  Net Cash Flow generated from/ (used in) Operating Activities (5-6)  71,098.63  29,643.72  B  Cash Flow from Investing Activities: Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant & Equipment  529.92  681.31  Purchase of Property, Plant & Equipment and Intangible Assets  (5,005.85)  (5,609.49) Expenditure on Construction Work in Progress  (32,169.50)  (27,240.04) Proceeds from sale of Investments  5,118.51  0.10  Purchase of Other Investments  (3,859.10)  (2,027.56) Receipt of government grants (Capital Grant)  1.72  262.45  Interest Income received  2,093.52  2,089.15  Dividend Income on Investments  1,827.03  3,814.52  Net Cash Flow generated from/ (used in) Investing Activities  (31,463.75)  (28,029.56) C Cash Flow From Financing Activities: Proceeds from Long-Term Borrowings  1,349.26  16,706.91  Repayments of Long-Term Borrowings  (17,336.37)  (11,556.67) Payments of Lease Liabilities (Principal + Interest)  (2,812.91)  (2,253.93) Proceeds from/(Repayments of) Short-Term Borrowings  (1,843.18)  5,626.55  Interest paid  (7,768.86)  (7,009.51) Dividend paid  (10,972.58)  (3,305.68) Expenses towards Issue of Bonus Shares  -  (2.07) Net Cash Flow generated from/ (used in) Financing Activities  (39,384.64)  (1,794.40) D Net Change in Cash & Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)  250.24  (180.24) For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For S R B  & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 324 325  Sd/- Kamal Kumar Gwalani Company Secretary  ACS-13737 Sd/- Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Partner M. No.
053960 Sd/-    Komandoor Mohan Acharya Partner M. No.
029082 For S R B & ASSOCIATES Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
310009E For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/ S200034 As per our attached Report of even date  (J in crore)  Particulars Reserves and Surplus Items of Other Comprehensive Income Attributable to  Equityholders of  the Parent Non- Controlling  Interest TOTALRetained  Earnings Bond Redemption  Reserve Capital Reserve/  Capital Redemption  Reserve Securities  Premium Insurance  Reserve Corporate Social  Responsibility  Reserve Fair value of  Equity Instruments Fair value of Debt  Instruments Cash Flow  Hedge  Reserve Translation  Reserve on  Consolidation Opening Balance as at April 01, 2022  1,04,284.22  1,800.54  726.53  76.74  291.42  0.53  16,557.37  345.28  27.32  244.19  1,24,354.14  1,591.47  1,25,945.61  Opening Balance Adjustment  0.11  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  0.11  -  0.11  Profit/(Loss) for the Year  9,792.12  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  9,792.12  1,912.14  11,704.26  Other Comprehensive Income  (75.38)*  -  -  -  -  -  (1,478.26)  (356.16)  111.35  1,498.75  (299.70)  11.34  (288.36) Total Comprehensive Income  9,716.74  -  -  -  -  -  (1,478.26)  (356.16)  111.35  1,498.75  9,492.42  1,923.48  11,415.90  Utilized for Issue of bonus shares including expenses (net of tax)  (4,295.45)  -  (297.65)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (4,593.10)  -  (4,593.10) Appropriation towards Final Dividend  (3,305.36)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (3,305.36)  (20.85)  (3,326.21) Appropriation towards Insurance reserve (Net)  (27.78)  -  -  -  27.78  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  768.59  (768.59)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Appropriation towards Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve (net)  0.28  -  -  -  -  (0.28)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Addition to Capital Reserve/ Capital Redemption Reserve during the  year/Other adjustment in JVs  0.47  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  0.47  -  0.47  Closing Balance as at March 31, 2023  1,07,151.70  1,031.95  428.88  76.74  319.20  0.25  15,069.23  (10.88)  138.67  1,742.94  1,25,948.68  3,494.10  1,29,442.78  Opening Balance Adjustment  (1.16)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (1.16)  -  (1.16) Profit/(Loss) for the Year  41,729.69  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  41,729.69  1,431.46  43,161.15  Other Comprehensive Income  (32.28)*  -  -  -  -  -  13,550.44  6.98  (136.45)  (409.33)  12,979.36  28.64  13,008.00  Total Comprehensive Income  41,697.41  -  -  -  -  -  13,550.44  6.98  (136.45)  (409.33)  54,709.05  1,460.10  56,169.15  Dividend Distribution Tax Refund  2.46  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  2.46  -  2.46  Utilized for issue of bonus shares [including expenses (net of tax)]  -  -  0.01  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  0.01  -  0.01  Appropriation towards Interim Dividend  (6,886.04)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (6,886.04)  -  (6,886.04) Appropriation towards Final Dividend  (4,131.58)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (4,131.58)  (207.49)  (4,339.07) Appropriation towards Insurance Reserve (Net)  (21.01)  -  -  -  21.01  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,013.20  (1,013.20)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Appropriation towards Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve (net)  0.23  -  -  -  -  (0.23)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  Addition/Adjustment to Securities Premium during the year  -  -  -  3.20  -  -  -  -  -  -  3.20  -  3.20  Addition to Capital Reserve/ Capital Redemption Reserve during the  year/Other adjustment in JVs  -  -  0.09  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  0.09  -  0.09  Closing Balance as at March 31, 2024  1,38,825.21  18.75  428.98  79.94  340.21  0.02  28,619.67  (3.90)  2.22  1,333.61  1,69,644.71  4,746.71  1,74,391.42  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 A.
Equity Share Capital B.
Other Equity (J in crore) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Balance at the beginning of the year  13,771.56  9,181.04  Changes during the year - Issue of Bonus Shares  -  4,590.52  Balance at the end of the year  13,771.56  13,771.56  * Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Sd/- S. M. Vaidya Chairman DIN- 06995642 Sd/- Anuj Jain Director (Finance) DIN- 10310088 For K G SOMANI & CO LLP Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/ N500377 Sd/- Naveen Jain Partner M. No.
511596 Sd/- Amber Jaiswal Partner M. No.
550715 For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO.  Chartered Accountants Firm Regn.
No.
105049W As per our attached Report of even date For and on Behalf of Board of Directors For and on Behalf of Board of Directors Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 326 327  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the  relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties  sharing control.
The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture are  accounted for using the equity method as per Ind AS 28.
Under  this method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is  initially recognized at cost and adjusted thereafter for changes  in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint  venture since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the  associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of  the investment and is not tested for impairment individually.
The Statement of Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s share  of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture  and any change in OCI of those investees is presented  as part of the Group’s OCI.
Unrealised gains and losses  resulting from transactions between the Group and the  associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the  interest in the associate or joint venture.
If an entity’s share of losses of an associate or a joint venture  equal or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture  (which includes any long term interest that, in substance,  form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate or  joint venture), the entity discontinues recognizing its share  of further losses.
Additional losses are recognized only to  the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive  obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or  joint venture.
If the associate or joint venture subsequently  reports profits, the entity resumes recognizing its share of  those profits only after its share of the profits equals the  share of losses not recognized.
The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are  prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
When  necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting  policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines  whether it is necessary to recognize an impairment loss on  its investments in its associate or joint venture.
At each  reporting date, the Group determines whether there is  objective evidence that the investment in the associate or  joint venture is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group  calculates the amount of impairment as the difference  between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint  venture and its carrying value, and then recognizes the loss  as ‘Share of profit of an associate and a joint venture’ in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
1.4.3 Interest in Joint operations:  For the interest in joint operations, the Group recognizes:  - Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly  - Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities  incurred jointly  - Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising  from the joint operation  - Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the  joint operation  - Expenses, including its share of any expenses  incurred jointly 2.
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) and Intangible Assets 2.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) 2.1.1 Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) are stated in the  Balance Sheet at cost, less any accumulated depreciation  and accumulated impairment losses (if any), except freehold  land which are carried at historical cost.
2.1.2 Technical know-how / licence fee relating to plants/ facilities and specific software that are integral part of  the related hardware are capitalized as part of cost of the  underlying asset.
2.1.3 Spare parts are capitalized when they meet the definition of  PPE, i.e., when the Group intends to use these for a period  exceeding 12 months.
2.1.4 Environment responsibility related obligations directly  attributable to projects is recognized as project cost on  the basis of progress of project or on actual incurrence,  whichever is higher.
2.1.5 On transition to Ind AS, the Group has elected to continue  with the carrying value of all of its PPE recognized as at April  01, 2015 measured as per the previous GAAP and use that  carrying value as the deemed cost of PPE.
2.2 Capital Work in Progress (CWIP) 2.2.1 Expenditure incurred on assets under construction  (including a project) is carried at cost under CWIP .
2.2.2 Construction Period Expenses   Revenue expenses exclusively attributable to projects  incurred during construction period are capitalized.
Borrowing cost incurred during construction period on loans  specifically borrowed and utilized for projects is capitalized  on quarterly basis up to the date of capitalization.
Borrowing cost, if any, incurred on General Borrowings used  for projects is capitalized at the weighted average cost of all  borrowings other than those mentioned above.
The amount  of such borrowings is determined on quarterly basis after  setting off the amount of internal accruals.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES I.
CORPORATE INFORMATION The Financial Statements comprise Financial Statements of  "Indian Oil Corporation Limited” (“the Holding company” or “IOCL ”  or “Parent Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Group)  and its interest in Joint ventures and Associates for the year  ended March 31, 2024.
IOCL is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled  in India.
Its shares are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange and  National Stock Exchange in India.
The registered office of the  Holding company is located at Indian Oil Bhavan, G-9, Ali Yavar  Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai.
The Group has with business interests straddling the entire  hydrocarbon value chain - from refining, pipeline transportation  & marketing, to exploration & production of crude oil & gas,  petrochemicals, gas marketing, alternative energy sources and  globalisation of downstream operations.
The Financial Statements have been approved for issue in  accordance with a resolution of the Board of directors passed in  its meeting held on April 30, 2024.
II.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.
Basis of Preparation / Consolidation and Statement of  Compliance 1.1 The financial statements have been prepared on accrual  basis and in accordance with the applicable Indian  Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section  133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with the  Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules and other  relevant provisions of the Act and Rules thereunder, as  amended from time to time.
1.2 The financial statements have been prepared on a historical  cost basis, except for the following assets and liabilities  which have been measured at fair value:  - Derivative financial instruments,  - Certain financial assets and liabilities measured at  fair value (refer serial no.
16 of accounting policies  regarding financial instruments) and   - Plan assets related to employee benefits (refer  serial no.
12 of accounting policies regarding  employee benefits) 1.3 The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees  (H) which is the presentation currency of the Group and all  values are rounded to the nearest crore (up to two decimals)  except when otherwise indicated.
1.4  Basis of Consolidation: 1.4.1 Subsidiaries:  The financial statements comprise the financial statements  of the IOCL and its subsidiaries as at March 31, 2024.
Control  on the investee is achieved when the Group is exposed, or  has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the  investee and has the ability to affect those returns through  its power over the investee.
Consolidation of a subsidiary  begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary  and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary  acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the  Financial Statements from the date the Group gains control  until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Financial Statements are prepared using uniform accounting  policies for like transactions and other events in similar  circumstances.
The Financial Statements of all entities  used for the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same  reporting date as that of the parent company, i.e., year  ended on March 31.
Consolidation procedure as defined  in the Ind AS 110 is followed under which the like items of  assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows  of the parent company with those of its subsidiaries are  combined, the carrying amount of the parent company’s  investment in each subsidiary and the parent company’s  portion of equity of each subsidiary is offset / eliminated  and intragroup assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses  and cash flows relating to transactions between entities of  the group are eliminated.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive  income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the  parent company of the Group and to the non-controlling  interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests  having a deficit balance.
All intra-group assets and liabilities,  equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to  transactions between members of the Group are eliminated  in full on consolidation.
1.4.2 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures  An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant  influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in  the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee  but is not control or joint control over those policies.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby  the parties that have joint control of the arrangement  have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint  control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 328 329  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) 2.4.2 Depreciation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on assets,  from/up to the month of capitalization/ sale, disposal/ or  classified to Asset held for disposal.
2.4.3 Residual value is determined considering past experience  and generally the same is between 0 to 5% of cost  of assets except   a.
In case of Steel LPG cylinder and pressure regulator,  residual value is considered at 25% and in case of fibre  composite LPG cylinder, residual value is considered  at 10% based on estimated realisable value  b.
In case of catalyst with noble metal content,  residual value is considered based on the cost of  metal content and  c. In few cases residual value is considered based on  transfer value agreed in respective agreement.
2.4.4 PPE, other than LPG Cylinders and Pressure Regulators,  costing up to H 5,000/- per item are depreciated fully in  the year of capitalization.
Further, spares, components  like catalyst excluding noble metal content and major  overhaul/ inspection are also depreciated fully over their  respective useful life.
2.4.5 The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation  of PPE are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted  prospectively, if appropriate.
3.
Leases   The Group assesses at contract inception whether a  contract is, or contains, a lease.
That is, if the contract  conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for  a period of time in exchange for consideration.
3.1 Leases as Lessee (Assets taken on lease)  The Group applies a single recognition and measurement  approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and  leases of low-value assets.
The Group recognizes lease  liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets  representing the right to use the underlying assets.
3.1.1 Lease Liabilities  At the commencement date of the lease, the Group  recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value  of lease payments to be made over the contractual lease  term, for which enforceable rights is available.
In calculating  the present value of lease payments, the Group uses the  incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement  date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily  determinable.
After the commencement date, the amount  of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of  interest and reduced for the lease payments made.
3.1.2 Right-of-use Assets  The Group recognizes right-of-use (ROU) assets at the  commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying  asset is available for use).
Right-of-use assets are measured  at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment  losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease  liabilities.
Perpetual Right of use (ROU) assets related to land  are not depreciated but tested for Impairment loss, if any.
3.1.3 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets  The Group applies the short-term lease recognition  exemption to its short-term leases of Property, Plant and  Equipment (i.e., those leases that have a lease term of 12  months or less from the commencement date and do not  contain a purchase option).
It also applies the lease of  low-value assets recognition exemption to leases that are  considered of low value and is not intended for sublease.
Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low- value assets are recognized as expense on a straight-line  basis over the lease term or another systematic basis  if that basis is more representative of the pattern of the  lessee’s benefit.
3.2 Leases as Lessor (assets given on lease) 3.2.1 When the Group acts as lessor, it determines at the  commencement of the lease whether it is a finance lease  or an operating lease.
Rental income from operating lease  is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the  relevant lease except where another systematic basis  is more representative of the time pattern of the benefit  derived from the asset given on lease.
All assets given on  finance lease are shown as receivables at an amount equal  to net investment in the lease.
Principal component of the  lease receipts is adjusted against outstanding receivables  and interest income is accounted by applying the interest  rate implicit in the lease to the net investment.
3.2.2 When the Group is an intermediate lessor it accounts for  its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease separately.
It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with  reference to the ROU asset arising from the head lease, not  with reference to the underlying asset.
If a head lease is a  short-term lease to which the Group applies the short-term  lease exemption described above, then it classifies the sub- lease as an operating lease.
4.
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets (Also refer para 14 for  impairment of E&P Assets)  The Group assesses at each reporting date, whether  there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If  any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing  for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s  recoverable amount.
An asset’s recoverable amount is the  2.2.3 Capital Stores    Capital Stores are valued at weighted average cost.
Specific provision is made for likely diminution in value,  wherever required.
2.3 Intangible Assets & Amortisation 2.3.1 Technical know-how / licence fee relating to production  process and process design are recognized as Intangible  Assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of  the underlying plant/ facility.
2.3.2 Expenditure incurred in research phase is charged to revenue  and that in development phase, unless it is of capital nature,  is also charged to revenue.
2.3.3 Cost incurred on computer software/licences purchased/ developed resulting in future economic benefits, other  than specific software that are integral part of the  related hardware, are capitalized as Intangible Asset and  amortised over a period of three years beginning from the  month in which such software/ licences are capitalized.
However, where such computer software/ licence is  under development or is not yet ready for its intended use,  accumulated cost incurred on such items are accounted as  “Intangible Assets Under Development” 2.3.4 Right of ways with indefinite useful lives are not amortised  but tested for impairment annually at the cash-generating  unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed  annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues  to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from  indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
2.3.5 Intangible Assets acquired are measured on initial  recognition at cost.
The cost of Intangible Assets acquired in  a business combination is based on its fair value at the date  of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, Intangible Assets  are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation  and accumulated impairment losses.
In case of internally  generated intangibles, development cost is recognized as  an asset when all the recognition criteria are met.
2.3.6 Intangible Assets are amortised over the useful life on  straight line basis and assessed for impairment whenever  there is an indication that the intangible asset may be  impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation  method for an intangible asset are reviewed at the end of  each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life  or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic  benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify  the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and  are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The  amortisation expense on Intangible Assets is recognized in  the Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure  forms part of carrying value of another asset.
2.3.7 On transition to Ind AS, the Group has elected to continue  with the carrying value of all of its Intangible Assets  recognized as at April 1, 2015 measured as per the previous  GAAP and use that carrying value as the deemed cost of the  Intangible Assets.
2.3.8 Amortisation is charged pro-rata on monthly basis on  assets, from/upto the month of capitalization/ sale, disposal  or classified to Asset held for disposal.
2.4 Depreciation 2.4.1 Cost of PPE (net of residual value) excluding freehold land  is depreciated on straight-line method as per the useful life  prescribed in Schedule II to the Act except in case of the  following assets:  a) Useful life based on technical assessment 	 15 years for Plant and Equipment relating  to Retail Outlets (other than storage tanks  and related equipment), LPG cylinders and  pressure regulators 	 10 years for Dispensing Unit  	 25 years for Solar Power Plant 	 13 years for Optical Fiber Cable 	 Certain assets of R&D Centre (15-25 years) 	 Certain assets of CGD business, (Compressor /  Booster Compressor and Dispenser - 10 years,  Cascade – 20 years) 	 Moulds used for the manufacturing of the  packaging material for Lubricants- 5 years 	 In other cases, like Spare Parts etc.
(2-30 years)  b) In case of specific agreements e.g., enabling assets  etc., useful life as per agreement or Schedule II to the  Act, whichever is lower.
c) In case of immovable assets constructed on leasehold  land, useful life as per Schedule-II to the Act or lease  period of land (considering renewable / likely renewable  period over and above the contractual lease period  considered for the leases), whichever is lower, and.
d) In case where useful life is mandated as per other  relevant statute or any of the regulation.
The Group depreciates components of the main asset  that are significant in value and have different useful lives  as compared to the main asset separately.
The Group  depreciates spares over the life of the spare from the date it  is available for use.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 330 331  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) 7.
Inventories 7.1 Raw Materials & Work in Progress 7.1.1 Raw materials including crude oil are valued at cost  determined on weighted average basis or net realisable  value, whichever is lower.
Work in Progress is valued at  raw material cost plus processing cost as applicable or net  realisable value, whichever is lower.
Crude oil in Transit is  valued at cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
7.1.2 Initial cost of inventories includes the transfer of gains and  losses on qualifying cash flow hedges, recognized in OCI, in  respect of the purchases of raw materials.
7.2 Finished Products and Stock in Trade 7.2.1 Finished Products and Stock in Trade, other than lubricants,  are valued at cost determined on ‘First in First Out’ basis  or net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost of Finished  Products produced internally is determined based on raw  material cost and processing cost.
7.2.2 Lubricants are valued at cost on weighted average basis or  net realisable value, whichever is lower.
Cost of lubricants  internally produced is determined based on cost of inputs  and processing cost.
7.2.3 Imported products in transit are valued at cost or net  realisable value whichever is lower.
7.3 Stores and Spares 7.3.1 Stores and Spares (including Chemicals, packing Containers  i.e., empty barrels, tins etc.)
are valued at weighted average  cost.
Specific provision is made in respect of identified  obsolete stores & spares and chemicals for likely diminution  in value.
Further, a provision @ 5% of cost is also made on  the balance stores and spares (excluding barrels, tins, stores  in transit, chemicals/catalysts, crude oil and own products)  towards likely diminution in the value.
7.3.2 Stores and Spares in transit are valued at cost.
8.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities & Contingent Assets 8.1 Provisions  Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present  obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event,  it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying  economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation  and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of  the obligation.
8.2 Decommissioning Liability  Decommissioning costs are provided at the present value  of expected cost to settle the obligation using estimated  cash flows and are recognized as part of the cost of the  particular asset.
The cash flows are discounted at a  current pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the  decommissioning liability.
The unwinding of the discount is  expensed as incurred and recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss as a finance cost.
The estimated future cost  of decommissioning is reviewed annually and adjusted as  appropriate.
Changes in the estimated future cost or in the  discount rate applied are adjusted in the cost of the asset.
8.3 Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 8.3.1 Show-cause notices issued by various Government  Authorities are generally not considered as obligations.
When the demand notices are raised against such show  cause notices and are disputed by the Group, these are  classified as disputed obligations.
8.3.2 The treatment in respect of disputed obligations is as under:  a) a provision is recognized in respect of present  obligations where the outflow of resources is probable  as per 8.1 above.
b) all other cases are disclosed as contingent liabilities  unless the possibility of outflow of resources is remote.
8.3.3 A Contingent Asset is disclosed where an inflow of economic  benefits is probable.
8.3.4 Contingent liabilities/assets are disclosed on the basis of  judgment of the management/independent experts and  reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to reflect the current  management estimate.
9.
Revenue   Revenue from Contracts with Customers  9.1 Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services  are transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects  the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled  in exchange for those goods or services.
The Group has generally concluded that it is the principal  in its revenue arrangements, except a few agency services,  because it typically controls the goods or services before  transferring them to the customer.
The Group considers whether there are other promises in the  contract that are separate performance obligations to which  a portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated (e.g.,  customer loyalty points).
In determining the transaction price  for the sale of products, the Group considers the effects of  variable consideration, the existence of significant financing  components, non-cash consideration and consideration  payable to the customer (if any).
9.2  Revenue from the sale of petroleum products, petrochemical  products, Crude and gas are recognized at a point in  time, generally upon delivery of the products.
The Group  recognizes revenue over time using input method (on the  basis of time elapsed) in case of non-refundable deposits  higher of an assets or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair  value less cost of disposal and its value in use.
Impairment  loss is recognized when the carrying amount of an asset  exceeds recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows  are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax  discount rate that reflects current market assessments of  the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less cost of disposal, recent market  transactions are taken into account.
If no such transactions  can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples,  quoted share prices for publicly traded companies or other  available fair value indicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed  budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared  separately for each of the Group's CGUs to which the  individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and forecast  calculations generally cover a period of 15 years.
For longer  periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to  project future cash flows after the fifteenth year.
To estimate  cash flow projections beyond periods covered by the  most recent budgets/forecasts, Group extrapolates cash  flow projections in the budget using a steady or declining  growth rate for subsequent years, unless an increasing rate  can be justified.
5.
Borrowing Costs  Borrowing costs that are attributable to the acquisition  or construction of the qualifying asset are capitalized as  part of the cost of such asset.
Capitalization of borrowing  costs is suspended when active development activity on  the qualifying assets is interrupted other than on temporary  basis and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss  during such extended periods.
All other borrowing costs are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the period  in which the same are incurred.
6.
Foreign Currency Transactions/ Translation  6.1 Transactions in currencies other than the respective group  entities’ functional currencies (foreign currencies) are  initially recorded at spot exchange rates prevailing on the  date of transactions.
6.2  Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies (such  as cash, receivables, payables etc.)
outstanding at the  end of reporting period, are translated at exchange rates  prevailing on that date.
6.3  Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currency,  (such as PPE, intangible assets, equity investments, capital/  revenue advances other than expected to be settled in cash  etc.)
are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date  of the transaction, other than those measured at fair value.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign  currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date  when the fair value is determined.
The gain or loss arising on  translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is  treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the  change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences  on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in Other  Comprehensive Income (OCI) or the Statement of Profit and  Loss are also recognized in OCI or the Statement of Profit  and Loss, respectively).
6.4 Any gains or losses arising due to differences in exchange  rates at the time of translation or settlement are accounted  for in the Statement of Profit and Loss either under the head  foreign exchange fluctuation or interest cost to the extent  regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs as the case  may be, except those relating to loans mentioned below.
Exchange differences on long-term foreign currency loans  obtained or re-financed on or before March 31, 2016,  relating to acquisition of depreciable assets are adjusted  to the carrying cost of the assets and depreciated over the  balance life of the assets.
6.5 Exchange differences arising on monetary items that forms  part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign  operation are recognized in profit or loss in the separate  financial statements of the reporting entity or the individual  financial statements of the foreign operation, as appropriate.
In the financial statements that include the foreign operation  and the reporting entity (e.g., consolidated financial  statements when the foreign operation is a subsidiary),  such exchange differences are recognized initially in OCI.
These exchange differences are reclassified from equity to  profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign  operations are translated into INR at the rate of exchange  prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of  profit or loss are translated at exchange rates prevailing  at the dates of the transactions.
For practical reasons, the  group uses an average rate to translate income and expense  items, if the average rate approximates the exchange rates  at the dates of the transactions.
The exchange differences  arising on translation for consolidation are recognized in  OCI.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of  OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is recognized  in profit or loss.
Any goodwill arising in the acquisition/ business  combination of a foreign operation on or after April 1, 2013,  and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as  assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated  at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 332 333  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) 11.2.2 Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside profit  or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in other  comprehensive income or in equity).
12.
Employee Benefits 12.1 Short Term Benefits:  Short Term Employee Benefits are accounted for in the  Statement of Profit and Loss for the period during which the  services have been rendered.
12.2 Post-Employment Benefits and Other Long Term Employee  Benefits:   a) The Group’s contribution to the Provident Fund  is remitted to separate trusts established for this  purpose based on a fixed percentage of the eligible  employee’s salary and charged to the Statement of  Profit and Loss/CWIP .
Shortfall, if any, in the fund  assets, based on the Government specified minimum  rate of return, is made good by the Group and charged  to the Statement of Profit and Loss/CWIP .
b) The Group operates defined benefit plans for Gratuity,  Post-Retirement Medical Benefits, Resettlement,  Felicitation Scheme and Ex-gratia.
The cost of  providing such defined benefits is determined using  the projected unit credit method of actuarial valuation  made at the end of the year.
Out of these plans,  Gratuity and Post-Retirement Medical Benefits are  administered through respective Trusts.
c) Obligations on other long-term employee benefits  viz leave encashment and Long Service Awards are  provided using the projected unit credit method of  actuarial valuation made at the end of the year.
Out of  these obligations, leave encashment obligations are  funded through qualifying insurance policies made  with insurance companies.
d) The Group also operates a defined contribution  scheme for Pension benefits for its employees and  the contribution is remitted to a separate Trust/ Corporate NPS.
12.3 Remeasurements:  Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and  losses and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts  included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability),  are recognized immediately in the Balance Sheet with a  corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through  Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) in the period in which  it occurs.
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or  loss in subsequent periods.
Remeasurements in respect of  other long term benefits are recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss.
13.
Grants  13.1 Grant relating to Assets (Capital Grants)  In case of grants relating to depreciable assets, the cost  of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon is  treated as Deferred Income which are recognized as "Other  Operating Revenues" usually in the Statement of Profit  and Loss over the period and in the proportion in which  depreciation is charged.
13.2  Grant related to Income (Revenue Grants)  Revenue grants are recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which  the entity recognizes as expenses the related cost for which  the grants are intended to compensate.
Subsidy and budgetary support towards under recoveries  are recognized in “Revenue from Operations” as per  schemes notified by Government from time to time, subject  to final adjustments, wherever applicable.
Revenue grants are generally recorded under “Other  Operating Revenues”, except northeast excise duty  exemption which is netted off with the related expense.
13.3  When loans or similar assistance are provided by  governments or related institutions, with an interest rate  below the current applicable market rate or NIL interest  rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as  a government grant.
The loan or assistance is initially  recognized and measured at fair value and the government  grant is measured as the difference between the initial  carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received.
The  loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy  applicable to financial liabilities.
Classification of the grant is  made considering the terms and condition of the grant i.e.,  whether grants relate to assets or otherwise.
14.
Oil & Gas Exploration Activities 14.1  Pre-acquisition Cost  Expenditure incurred before obtaining the right(s) to  explore, develop and produce oil and gas are expensed as  and when incurred.
14.2  Exploration Stage  Acquisition cost relating to projects under exploration  are initially accounted as “Intangible Assets under  Development”.
The expenses on oil and gas assets that is  classified as intangible includes acquired rights to explore  and exploratory drilling cost.
Cost of Survey and prospecting activities conducted in the  search of oil and gas are expensed as exploration cost in the  year in which these are incurred.
from dealers and service contracts.
In case of construction  contracts, revenue and cost are recognized by measuring  the contract progress using input method by comparing the  cost incurred and total contract cost.
9.3 The Group has assumed that recovery of excise duty flows  to the Group on its own account.
This is for the reason that it  is a liability of the manufacturer which forms part of the cost  of production, irrespective of whether the goods are sold or  not.
Since the recovery of excise duty flows to the Group on  its own account, revenue includes excise duty.
However, Sales Tax/ Goods and Services Tax (GST) and  Value Added Tax (VAT) is not received by the Group on  its own account.
Rather, it is tax collected on value added  to the product by the seller on behalf of the government.
Accordingly, it is excluded from revenue.
9.4 Variable consideration   The Group provides volume rebates to certain customers  once the quantity of products purchased during the period  exceeds a threshold specified in the contract.
Rebates are  offset against amounts payable by the customer.
The volume  rebates/ cash discount give rise to variable consideration.
To estimate the variable consideration for the expected  future rebates/ cash discount, the Group applies the most  likely amount method for contracts with a single-volume  threshold and the expected value method for contracts  with more than one volume threshold.
The selected method  that best predicts the amount of variable consideration  is primarily driven by the number of volume thresholds  contained in the contract and accordingly, the Group  recognizes a refund liability for the expected future rebates  with suitable adjustments in revenue from operations.
9.5  Loyalty Points  The Group operates various loyalty point schemes.
The  transaction price allocated to customer loyalty points is  based on their relative estimated standalone selling price  and the same is reduced from revenue from sale of goods.
While estimating standalone selling price of customer  loyalty points, the likelihood of exercising the option is  adjusted.
Wherever the Group is acting as an agent in this  arrangement, the Group recognize the revenue on net basis.
10.
Excise Duty  Excise duty is accounted on the basis of both, payments  made in respect of goods cleared as also provision made  for goods lying in stock.
Value of stock includes excise duty  payable / paid on finished goods wherever applicable.
11.
Taxes on Income 11.1 Current Income Tax   The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax  amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted,  at the reporting date in the countries where the Group  operates and generates taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognized outside  profit or loss is recognized outside profit or loss (either in  other comprehensive income or in equity).
Management  periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with  respect to applicable tax regulations which are subject to  interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
11.2 Deferred Tax 11.2.1 Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet method on  temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and  liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting  purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are  recognized for all taxable temporary differences, except:  (a) when the deferred tax liability arises from the initial  recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a  transaction that is not a business combination and,  at the time of the transaction, affects neither the  accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss;   (b) in respect of taxable temporary differences associated  with investments in subsidiaries, associates and  interests in joint ventures, when the timing of the  reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled  and it is probable that the temporary differences will  not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible  temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax  credits and any unused tax losses.
Deferred tax assets  are recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable  profit will be available in future against which the deductible  temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax  credits and unused tax losses can be utilized, except:  (a) when the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible  temporary difference arises from the initial recognition  of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not  a business combination and, at the time of the  transaction, affects neither the accounting profit or  loss nor taxable profit or loss.
(b) In respect of deductible temporary differences  associated with investments in subsidiaries,  associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred  tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is  probable that the temporary differences will reverse  in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be  available against which the temporary differences  can be utilized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based on tax  rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively  enacted at the reporting date.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 334 335  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) 16.1.1 Financial Assets at Amortised Cost  A Financial Asset is measured at the amortised cost if both  the following conditions are met:  a) The asset is held within a business model whose  objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual  cash flows, and  b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified  dates to cash flows that are solely payments  of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal  amount outstanding.
Financial Assets are subsequently measured at amortised  cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any  discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that  are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is  included in finance income in the profit or loss.
The losses  arising from impairment are recognized in the profit or loss.
Apart from the same, any income or expense arising from  remeasurement of financial assets measured at amortised  cost, in accordance with Ind AS 109, is recognized in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
This category generally  applies to trade and other receivables.
16.1.2 Debt Instrument at FVTOCI  A ‘Debt Instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of  the following criteria are met:  a) The objective of the business model is achieved both  by collecting contractual cash flows and selling the  Financial Assets, and  b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent solely  payments of principal and interest (SPPI).
Debt Instruments included within the FVTOCI category  are measured initially as well as at each reporting date  at fair value.
Fair Value movements are recognized in the  Other Comprehensive Income (OCI).
However, the Group  recognizes interest income, impairment losses & reversals  and foreign exchange gain or loss in the Statement of Profit  and Loss.
On derecognition of the asset, cumulative gain or  loss previously recognized in OCI is reclassified from the  equity to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Interest earned  whilst holding FVTOCI Debt Instrument is reported as  interest income using the EIR method.
16.1.3 Equity Instrument  A.
Share Warrants in Joint Ventures at FVTOCI   Investments in Share Warrants of Joint Ventures are  measured at fair value and the Group has made an  irrevocable election to present subsequent changes in  the fair value in Other Comprehensive Income.
B.
Equity Instrument in other entities at FVTOCI   All such equity investments are measured at fair value  and the Group has made an irrevocable election to  present subsequent changes in the fair value in Other  Comprehensive Income.
There is no recycling of the  amounts from OCI to the Statement of Profit and Loss,  even on sale of investment.
C. Dividend income is recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss when the Group’s right to receive  dividend is established.
16.1.4 Debt Instruments and Derivatives at FVTPL  FVTPL is a residual category for Debt Instrument.
Any  debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for  categorization as at amortised cost or as FVTOCI, is  classified as at FVTPL.
This category also includes derivative financial instruments  entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging  instruments in hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS  109.
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category  are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Interest income on such  instruments has been presented under interest income.
16.1.5 Impairment of Financial Assets  The Group applies Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for  measurement and recognition of impairment loss on the  Financial Assets that are measured at amortised cost  e.g., loans, debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and  bank balance.
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal)  recognized during the period is recognized as expense / income/ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
In the Balance  Sheet, ECL is presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part  of the measurement of those assets in the Balance Sheet.
The  allowance reduces the net carrying amount.
Until the asset  meets write-off criteria, the Group does not reduce impairment  allowance from the gross carrying amount.
Simplified Approach  The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition  of impairment loss allowance on Trade Receivables.
The  application of simplified approach does not require the  Group to track changes in credit risk.
Rather, it recognizes  impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each  reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Group uses a provision matrix  to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of  its trade receivables.
The provision matrix is based on its  historically observed default rates over the expected life of  the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking  estimates.
At every reporting date, the historical observed   If the project is not viable based upon technical feasibility  and commercial viability study, then all cost relating to  Exploratory Wells are expensed in the year when determined  to be dry.
If the project is proved to be viable, then all cost  relating to drilling of Exploratory Wells shall be continued to  be presented as “Intangible Assets under Development”.
14.3 Development Stage  Acquisition cost relating to projects under development  stage are presented as “Capital Work-in-Progress”.
When  a well is ready to commence commercial production, the  capitalized cost corresponding to proved developed oil and  gas reserves is reclassified as ‘Completed wells/ Producing  wells’ from “Capital Work-in-Progress/ Intangible Assets  under Development” to the gross block of assets.
Examples  of Oil and Gas assets that might be classified as Tangible  Assets include development drilling cost, piping and pumps  and producing wells.
14.4 Production Phase  Production cost include pre-well head and post-well head  expenses including depreciation and applicable operating  costs of support equipment and facilities are expensed off.
Depletion is calculated using the Unit of Production method  based upon proved and developed reserves.
14.5 Abandonment Phase  In case of development / production phase, abandonment  / decommissioning amount is recognized at the present  value of the estimated future expenditure.
Any change in the  present value of the estimated decommissioning expenditure  other than the unwinding of discount is adjusted to the  decommissioning provision and the carrying value of the  corresponding asset.
The unwinding of discount on provision  is charged in the Statement of Profit and Loss as finance costs.
14.6 Impairment of E&P Assets  14.6.1 Impairment testing in case of Development and  producing assets  In case of E&P related development and producing  assets, expected future cash flows are estimated using  management’s best estimate of future oil and natural gas  prices, production volumes, proved & probable reserves  volumes and discount rate.
The expected future cash  flows are estimated on the basis of value in use concept.
The value in use is based on the cash flows expected to be  generated by the projected oil or gas production profiles up  to the expected dates of cessation of production of each  producing field, based on current estimates of proved and  probable reserves and on reasonable & supportable fiscal  assumptions that represent management’s best estimate  of the range of economic conditions that will exist over the  remaining useful life of the asset.
Management takes a  long-term view of the range of economic conditions over the  remaining useful life of the asset and, are not based on the  relatively short-term changes in the economic conditions.
However, impairment of exploration and evaluation assets  is to be done in line with para 14.6.2.
14.6.2 Impairment in case of Exploration and Evaluation assets  Exploration and Evaluation assets are tested for impairment  where an indicator for impairment exists.
In such cases, while  calculating recoverable amount, in addition to the factors  mentioned in 14.6.1, management’ s best estimate of total  current reserves and resources are considered (including  possible and contingent reserve) after appropriately  adjusting the associated inherent risks.
Impairment loss  is reversed subsequently, to the extent that conditions for  impairment are no longer present.
14.6.3 Cash Generating Unit   In case of E&P assets, the Group generally considers a project  as cash generating unit.
However, in case where the multiple  fields are using common production/transportation facilities  and are sufficiently economically interdependent the same  are considered to constitute a single cash generating unit.
15.
Current Versus Non-Current Classification  The group uses twelve months period for determining  current and non-current classification of assets and  liabilities in the balance sheet.
16.
Financial Instruments 16.1 Financial Assets  Initial recognition and measurement  All Financial Assets are recognized initially at fair value plus,  in the case of Financial Assets not recorded at fair value  through profit or loss, transaction cost that are attributable  to the acquisition of the financial assets.
However, trade  receivables that do not contain a significant financing  component are measured at transaction price.
Transaction  costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial  assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are  recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Subsequent measurement  For the purpose of subsequent measurement, Financial  Assets are classified in four categories: 	 Financial Assets at amortised cost 	 Debt Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) 	 Equity Instruments at fair value through Other  Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) 	 Financial Assets and derivatives at fair value through  profit or loss (FVTPL) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 336 337  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) changes in the hedging instrument’s fair value in offsetting  the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or  cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of these  derivatives is recognized in Other Comprehensive Income  and accumulated under the heading Cash Flow Hedge  Reserve within Equity.
The fair value changes relating  to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in  the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Amounts previously  recognized in OCI and accumulated in equity relating to  effective portion are reclassified to Statement of Profit and  Loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit  or loss, in the same line item as the recognized hedged  item or treated as basis adjustment if a hedged forecast  transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non- financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a forecasted  transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative  gain or loss accumulated in equity is transferred to the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
16.3.2 Derivatives that are not designated as Hedge Instrument  The Group enters into certain derivative contracts to hedge  risks which are not designated as hedges.
Such contracts  are accounted for at fair value through the Statement  of Profit and Loss and are included in the Other Income  or Other Expenses as Gain on Derivatives or Loss on  Derivatives respectively.
17.
Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash and Cash Equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise  cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an  original maturity of three months or less, which are subject  to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdraft  (negative balance in Account) is shown under short term  borrowings under Financial Liabilities & Positive balance in  that account is shown in Cash & Cash Equivalents.
18.
Treasury Shares  Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation, IOC Shares  Trust has been set up by IOCL for holding treasury shares  in relation to IBP and BRPL mergers.
The shares held by IOC  Shares Trust are treated as treasury shares.
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury  shares) are recognized at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognized in the Statement of Profit  and Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the  Group’s own equity instruments.
19. Business Combinations and Goodwill 19.1 In accordance with Ind AS 101 provisions related to first  time adoption, the Group has elected to apply Ind AS  accounting for business combinations prospectively from  01 April 2013.
As such, Indian GAAP balances relating  to business combinations entered into before that date,  including goodwill, have been carried forward with minimal  adjustment.
The same first-time adoption exemption is also  used for associates and joint ventures.
19.2 Business combinations are accounted for using the  acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured  as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured  at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non- controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business  combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non- controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the  proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired, and  the liabilities assumed are recognized at their acquisition date  fair values.
For this purpose, the liabilities assumed include  contingent liabilities representing present obligation and  they are measured at their acquisition fair values irrespective  of the fact that outflow of resources embodying economic  benefits is not probable.
However, Deferred tax assets or  liabilities, assets or liabilities related to employee benefit  arrangements, Liabilities or equity instruments related to  share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree / share- based payments arrangements of the Group entered into to  replace payment arrangements of the acquiree and Assets  (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are accounted  for in accordance with the respective Ind AS  If the business combination is achieved in stages, any  previously held equity interest is re-measured at its  acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is  recognized in profit or loss or OCI, as appropriate.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the  acquirer is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability  that is a financial instrument and within the scope of Ind  AS 109 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with  changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss.
Otherwise,  it is measured in accordance with the appropriate Ind AS  and Contingent consideration that is classified as equity  is not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and  subsequent its settlement is accounted for within equity.
19.3  Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the  aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount  recognized for non-controlling interests, and any previous  interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and  liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired  is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the  Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of  the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and  reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be  recognized at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still  results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired  default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking  estimates are analysed.
On that basis, the Group estimates  provision on trade receivables at the reporting date.
General Approach  For recognition of impairment loss on other Financial  Assets, the Group determines that whether there has been a  significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition.
If credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-months  ECL is used to provide for impairment loss.
However, if  credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used.
If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument  improves such that there is no longer a significant increase  in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity  reverts to recognizing impairment loss allowance based  on 12-months ECL.
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all  possible default events over the expected life of a financial  instrument.
The 12-months ECL is a portion of the lifetime  ECL which results from default events that are possible  within 12 months after the reporting date.
16.2 Financial Liabilities 16.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement.
All Financial Liabilities are recognized initially at fair value  and, in the case of liabilities subsequently measured at  amortised cost, they are measured net of directly attributable  transaction cost.
In case of Financial Liabilities measured at  fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs directly  attributable to the acquisition of financial liabilities are  recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Group’s Financial Liabilities include trade and  other payables, loans and borrowings and derivative  financial instruments.
16.2.2 Subsequent measurement  The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their  classification, as described below:  A.
Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss   Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss  include financial liabilities held for trading and financial  liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at  fair value through Statement of Profit and Loss.
This  category also includes derivative financial instruments  entered into by the Group that are not designated as  hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined  by Ind AS 109.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are  recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
B.
Financial Liabilities at amortised cost   Financial Liabilities that are not held-for-trading and  are not designated as at FVTPL are measured at  amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting  periods.
The carrying amounts of financial liabilities  that are subsequently measured at amortised cost are  determined based on the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognized in the Statement of  Profit and Loss when the liabilities are derecognized  as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account  any discount or premium on acquisition and fees  or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR  amortisation is included as finance costs in the  Statement of Profit and Loss.
C. Financial Guarantee Contracts   Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are  those contracts that require a payment to be made to  reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the  specified debtor fails to make the payment when due  in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially  as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction cost  that are directly attributable to the issuance of the  guarantee.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at  the higher of the amount of loss allowance determined  as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the  amount initially recognized less cumulative income  recognized in accordance with principles of Ind AS 115.
16.3 Derivative Instrument- Initial recognition / subsequent  measurement  Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized  at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is  entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value of  derivatives depends on the designation or non- designation  of derivative as hedging instruments.
Derivatives are carried  as Financial Assets when the fair value is positive and as  financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
16.3.1 Derivative that are designated as Hedge Instrument  The Group generally designates the whole contract as  hedging instruments and these hedges are accounted  for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of a hedge  relationship, the Group documents the hedge relationship  to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting, the  risk management objective, strategy for undertaking the  hedge, the hedging/ economic relationship, the hedged item  or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, hedge  ratio and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 338 339  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE-1A: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Contd...) NOTE – 1B: ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires  management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets  and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the  disclosure of contingent liabilities.
These include recognition  and measurement of financial instruments, estimates of useful  lives and residual value of Property, Plant and Equipment and  intangible assets, valuation of inventories, measurement of  recoverable amounts of cash-generating units, measurement of  employee benefits, actuarial assumptions, provisions etc.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result  in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying  amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
The  Group continually evaluates these estimates and assumptions  based on the most recently available information.
Revisions  to accounting estimates are recognized prospectively in the  Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which the estimates  are revised and in any future periods affected.
A. JUDGEMENTS  In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies,  management has made the following judgements, which  have the significant effect on the amounts recognised in the  consolidated financial statements:  Materiality  Ind AS requires assessment of materiality for accounting  and disclosure of various transactions in the financial  statements.
Accordingly, the Group assesses materiality  limits for various items for accounting and disclosures  and follows on a consistent basis.
Overall materiality is  also assessed based on various financial parameters  such as Gross Block of assets, Net Block of Assets, Total  Assets, Revenue and Profit Before Tax.
The materiality  limits are reviewed and approved by the Board of the  Holding Company.
Oil & Gas Reserves  The determination of the group's estimated oil reserves  requires significant judgements and estimates to be applied  and these are regularly reviewed and updated.
Reserves  are estimated using independent reservoir engineering  reports and factors such as the availability of geological  and engineering data, reservoir performance data,  acquisition, and divestment activity, drilling of new wells,  and commodity prices all impact on the determination  of the group's estimates of its oil reserves.
Independent  reservoir engineers perform evaluations of the Corporation’s  oil and natural gas reserves on an annual basis The  group determines its proved reserves estimates on the  requirement of reasonable certainty with rigorous technical  and commercial assessments based on conventional  industry practice and regulatory requirements.
Refer note- 35 for related disclosure.
Intangible Asset under Development  Acquisition costs and drilling of exploratory well costs are  capitalized as intangible asset under development and are  reviewed at each reporting date to confirm that exploration  drilling is still under way or work has been determined /  under way to determine that the discovery is economically  viable based on a range of technical & commercial  considerations and for establishing development plans  and timing, sufficient / reasonable progress is being made.
If no future activity is planned on reasonable grounds  / timeframes, Intangible asset under development and  property acquisition costs is written off.
Upon start of  production from field and recognition of proved reserves,  cost carried as intangible asset under development is  transferred to producing properties.
Also refer Note-35 for  related disclosures.
Contingencies  Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course of  business in relation to claims against the Group, including  legal, contractor, land access and other claims.
By their  nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or  more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The  assessment of the existence, and potential quantum, of  contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant  judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome  of future events.
Refer Note-37 B for the related disclosures.
B.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS  The key assumptions concerning the future and other key  sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that  have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to  the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next  financial year, are described below.
Existing circumstances  and assumptions about future developments, however, may  change due to market changes or circumstances arising  that are beyond the control of the Group.
Such changes are  reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Defined benefit plans/ Other long term employee benefits  The cost of the defined benefit plans and other long term  employee benefit plans are determined using actuarial  valuations.
An actuarial valuation involves making various  assumptions that may differ from actual developments in  the future.
These include the determination of the discount  rate; future salary increases and mortality rates.
Due to  the complexities involved in the valuation and its long- term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive  to changes in these assumptions.
All assumptions are  reviewed at each reporting date.
The parameter most subject to change is the discount  rate.
The management considers the interest rates of  government securities based on expected settlement period  of various plans.
over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain  is recognized in OCI and accumulated in equity as Capital  Reserve.
However, if there is no clear evidence of bargain  purchase, the entity recognizes the gain directly in equity as  capital reserve, without routing the same through OCI.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less  any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose  of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business  combination space is allocated to each of the Group’s  cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from  the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or  liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
A  cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated  is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when  there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the  recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than  its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first  to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated  to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata  based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any  impairment loss for goodwill is recognized in profit or loss  and same is not reversed in subsequent periods.
20.
Non-Controlling Interest  Non-controlling interest represent the proportion of  income, other comprehensive income and net assets in  subsidiaries that is not attributable to the Parent Company's  shareholders.
Non-controlling interest is initially measured  at the proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the  acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition,  the carrying amount of non-controlling interest is the  amount of the interest at initial recognition plus the non- controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity.
III.
NEW STANDARDS/ AMENDMENTS AND OTHER CHANGES  EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2023 OR THEREAFTER  Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new standard or  amendments to the existing standards.
On 31 st March  2023, vide Notification G.S.R.
242(E) dated 31st March 2023,  modifications in existing standards have been notified  which will be applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:  a. Ind AS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements:   The Group has adopted the amendment wherein the  Group was required to disclose the material accounting  policy in its Financial Statements instead of the  significant accounting policy.
Accordingly, the Group  is disclosing material accounting policies as Note-1A.
There is no change in the accounting policy adopted  by the Group during the financial year 2023-2024.  b. Ind AS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in  Accounting Estimates and Errors:   The Group has adopted the amendments w.e.f.
April 1,  2023.
The impact of this amendment is not material.
c. Ind AS 12 - Income Taxes:   The Group has adopted the amendments w.e.f.
April 1,  2023.
The impact of this amendment is not material.
IV.
NEW STANDARDS/ AMENDMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT YET  EFFECTIVE  Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new standard or  amendments to the existing standards.
During the year,  no new standard or modifications in existing standards  have been notified which will be applicable from April 1,  2024, or thereafter.
CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 341 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24340  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 2: PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Current Year (J in crore) Particulars  Land -  Freehold  Buildings,  Roads etc.
Plant And  Equipment  Office  Equipment Transport  Equipment  Furniture &  Fixtures  Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right of  Use   Assets  (ROU) Total (Refer A&D) (Refer B&D) (Refer D) GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at  April 01, 2023  3,929.41  22,054.26  1,88,184.92  2,794.54  119.67  2,398.72  316.17  1,329.90  10,526.03  14,465.21  2,46,118.83  Additions during  the year  62.28  187.01  3,732.31  393.46  7.84  82.33  5.03  0.66  224.65  3,473.85  8,169.42  Transfers from  construction  work-in-progress  -  3,416.03  18,582.06  318.45  3.25  466.87  2.32  8.13  1,065.93  -  23,863.04  Disposals/  Deductions  / Transfers /  Reclassifications/  FCTR  (9.46)  (103.59)  (659.62)  (259.72)  (2.98)  (14.19)  (1.47)  (0.04)  126.85  (2,065.02)  (2,989.24) Gross Block as  at March 31,  2024  3,982.23  25,553.71  2,09,839.67  3,246.73  127.78  2,933.73  322.05  1,338.65  11,943.46  15,874.04 2,75,162.05  DEPRECIATION & AMORTISATION Depreciation &  Amortisation as  at April 01, 2023  -  5,824.66  51,064.91  1,721.10  59.16  1,392.71  94.06  363.88  3,773.26  4,727.36  69,021.10  Depreciation &  Amortisation  during the year  (Refer C)  -  1,192.12  10,152.49  447.79  9.77  229.72  19.56  52.14  643.20  2,932.10  15,678.89  Disposals/  Deductions  / Transfers/  Reclassifications/  FCTR  -  (11.42)  (245.34)  (153.41)  (1.58)  (14.21)  -  (0.01)  45.39  (1,885.23)  (2,265.81) Depreciation &  Amortisation  as at March 31,  2024  -  7,005.36  60,972.06  2,015.48  67.35  1,608.22  113.62  416.01  4,461.85  5,774.23  82,434.18  IMPAIRMENT Impairment Loss  as at April 01,  2023  -  10.82  180.97  -  -  -  -  0.27  370.52  3.10  565.68  Impairment Loss  reversed during  the year/ FCTR  -  -  (1.51)  -  -  -  -  -  4.18  -  2.67  Impairment Loss  as at March 31,  2024  -  10.82  179.46  -  -  -  -  0.27  374.70  3.10  568.35  Net Block as at  March 31, 2024  3,982.23  18,537.53  1,48,688.15  1,231.25  60.43  1,325.51  208.43  922.37  7,106.91  10,096.71 1,92,159.52  NOTE – 1B: ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES & JUDGEMENTS (Contd..)  Further details about various employee benefit obligations  are given in Note 36.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments  When the fair values of financial assets and financial  liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured  based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value  is measured using valuation techniques including the  discounted cash flow (DCF) model based on level-2 and  level-3 inputs.
The inputs to these models are taken from  observable markets where possible, but where this is not  feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing  fair values.
Judgements include considerations of inputs  such as price estimates, volume estimates, rate estimates  etc.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could  affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Also refer Note 40 for further disclosures of estimates  and assumptions.
Impairment of Financial Assets  The impairment provisions for trade receivables are made  considering simplified approach based on assumptions  about risk of default and expected loss rates.
The Group  uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting  the inputs to the impairment calculation based on the  company’s past history and other factors at the end of each  reporting period.
In case of other financial assets, the Group  applies general approach for recognition of impairment  losses wherein the Group uses judgement in considering  the probability of default upon initial recognition and  whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk  on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period.
Also  refer Note-41 for impairment analysis and provision.
Provision for decommissioning  At the end of the operating life of the Corporation’s facilities  and properties and upon retirement of its oil and natural gas  assets, decommissioning costs will be incurred.
Estimates  of these costs are subject to uncertainty associated with  the method, timing, and extent of future decommissioning  activities.
The liability, related asset and expense are  impacted by estimates with respect to the costs and timing  of decommissioning.
Refer note-18 for the provisions in  respect of decommissioning cost.
Income Taxes  The Group uses estimates and judgements based on the  relevant facts, circumstances, present and past experience,  rulings, and new pronouncements while determining the  provision for income tax as per the laws of the countries  where the group operates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised  to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit  will be available against which the deductible temporary  differences and tax losses can be utilised.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 342 343  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 2: PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Contd..) A. i) Freehold Land includes H 1.61 crore (2023: H 1.61 crore) lying vacant due to title disputes/ litigation.
ii) Out of the Freehold land measuring 1364.01 acres at Mathura and Agra regions, land measuring 50 acres (approx) has been  acquired by NHAI as a part of the NH2 widening project for which the determination of value of compensation is pending.
Accordingly, the value of land amounting to H 1.18 crore is continued to be included in Freehold land.
iii) Freehold Land of 490 acres at Guwahati Refinery includes land parcel of approx.
32.39 acres (Costing H 0.05 crore) on which  public roads, drains etc.
have been constructed by PWD, Govt.
of Assam.
iv) Freehold Land includes H 41.75 crore of compensation paid in respect of land at Panipat Refinery as per District and High  court orders of earlier dates, which was later quashed by subsequent High Court order dated 18.12.2019.
Since, the process  of recovery of compensation already paid, has been stayed by Hon’ble Supreme Court vide order dated 21.09.2020, necessary  adjustment shall be made in the cost of the land upon actual recovery, if any.
B. i) Buildings include H 0.01 crore (2023: H 0.01 crore) towards 1605 (2023: 1605) nos.
of shares in Co-operative Housing Societies  towards membership of such societies for purchase of flats.
ii) Includes Roads, Bridges etc.
(i.e.
Assets other than Building) of Gross block amounting to H 6699.32 crore (2023: H 6077.96  crore) and net block amounting to H 3538.55 crore (2023: H 3302.68 crore) .
C. Depreciation and amortisation for the year includes H 73.94 crore (2023: H 61.48 crore) relating to construction period expenses  shown in Note-2.2 D. Land and Buildings (Including ROU Asset) includes Gross Carrying Value of H 930.26 crore (2023: H 899.55 crore) in respect of  which Title/ Lease Deeds are pending for execution or renewal.
E. During the year, Useful life of Dispensing Unit has been reviewed by the Parent Company and based on technical assessment,  Useful life has been changed from 15 years to 10 years.
The impact on account of this change is increase in depreciation charge  by H 431.55 crore in FY 2023-24 which will be offset over future periods in the Statement of Profit & Loss.
F. During the year, Useful life of LPG Carousel and ATF Refueller have been reviewed by the Parent Company and changed from 25  years to 15 years.
The impact on account of this change is increase in depreciation charge by H 83.50 crore in FY 2023-24 which  will be offset over future periods in the Statement of Profit & Loss.
G. The Parent Company has reassessed estimated residual value of CGD & Cross-Country Pipeline, Optical Fiber Cable, DCS, PLC &  SCADA, and revised it to zero percent.
This has resulted in increase in depreciation by H 175.61 crore in FY 2023-24 which will be  offset over future periods in the Statement of Profit & Loss.
H. For further details regarding ROU Assets, refer ‘Note - 37’.
I.
In accordance with the requirements prescribed under Schedule II to Companies Act, 2013, the Parent Company has adopted  useful lives as prescribed in that schedule except in some cases as per point no.
2.4.1 of material accounting policies (Note-1).
(J in crore) Particulars  Land -  Freehold  Buildings,  Roads etc.
Plant And  Equipment  Office  Equipment Transport  Equipment  Furniture &  Fixtures  Railway  Sidings Drainage,  Sewage  and Water  Supply  System Producing  Properties Right of  Use   Assets  (ROU) Total (Refer A&D) (Refer B&D) (Refer D) GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at  April 01, 2022  3,820.96  19,746.20  1,64,666.68  2,469.51  111.75  901.82  203.23  1,295.84  9,506.01  12,622.86  2,15,344.86  Additions during  the year  131.20  218.70  4,193.68  366.40  5.18  69.19  0.88  14.64  233.20  3,028.34  8,261.41  Transfers from  construction  work-in-progress  -  2,338.33  21,572.27  170.99  1.88  218.05  112.23  19.90  664.41  -  25,098.06  Disposals/  Deductions  / Transfers /  Reclassifications/  FCTR  (22.75)  (248.97)  (2,247.71)  (212.36)  0.86  1,209.66  (0.17)  (0.48)  122.41  (1,185.99)  (2,585.50) Gross Block as  at March 31,  2023  3,929.41  22,054.26  1,88,184.92  2,794.54  119.67  2,398.72  316.17  1,329.90  10,526.03  14,465.21 2,46,118.83  DEPRECIATION & AMORTISATION Depreciation &  Amortisation as  at April 01, 2022  -  4,819.95  43,893.45  1,487.86  49.98  455.97  75.05  312.21  3,049.68  3,461.72  57,605.87  Depreciation &  Amortisation  during the year  (Refer C)  -  1,049.68  8,374.30  383.23  9.14  253.32  18.57  52.10  618.26  2,172.83  12,931.43  Disposals/  Deductions  / Transfers /  Reclassifications/  FCTR  -  (44.97)  (1,202.84)  (149.99)  0.04  683.42  0.44  (0.43)  105.32  (907.19)  (1,516.20) Depreciation &  Amortisation  as at March 31,  2023  -  5,824.66  51,064.91  1,721.10  59.16  1,392.71  94.06  363.88  3,773.26  4,727.36  69,021.10  IMPAIRMENT Total Impairment  as at April 01,  2022  -  16.16  165.88  -  -  -  -  0.27  361.70  -  544.01  Impairment Loss  during the year  -  -  15.84  -  -  -  -  -  -  3.10  18.94  Impairment Loss  reversed during  the year/ FCTR  -  (5.34)  (0.75)  -  -  -  -  -  8.82  -  2.73  Total Impairment  as at March 31,  2023  -  10.82  180.97  -  -  -  -  0.27  370.52  3.10  565.68  Net Block as at  March 31 , 2023  3,929.41  16,218.78  1,36,939.04  1,073.44  60.51  1,006.01  222.11  965.75  6,382.25  9,734.75 1,76,532.05  NOTE - 2: PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Contd..) Previous Year Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 344 345  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars Construction  Work in Progress -  Tangible Assets Capital  Stores Capital  Goods in  Transit Construction  Period Expenses  pending allocation Total Refer A Balance as at beginning of the year  34,774.69  8,507.73  1,126.12  3,353.42  47,761.96  Additions during the year  30,575.97  4,688.71  1,957.43  -  37,222.11  Net expenditure during the year (Note - 2.2)  -  -  -  1,404.06  1,404.06  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment (Note 2)  (23,861.62)  (1.42)  -  -  (23,863.04) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment - Direct  Addition (Note 2)  -  -  (28.92)  -  (28.92) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (2.25)  (0.01)  -  -  (2.26) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  2,763.76  (4,343.56)  (1,339.60)  (2,010.42)  (4,929.82)  44,250.55  8,851.45  1,715.03  2,747.06  57,564.09  Provision for Capital Losses  (191.47)  (55.76)  -  -  (247.23) Balance as at end of the year  44,059.08  8,795.69  1,715.03  2,747.06  57,316.86  (J in crore) Particulars Construction  Work in Progress  - Tangible Assets Capital  Stores Capital  Goods in  Transit Construction  Period Expenses  pending allocation Total Refer A Balance as at beginning of the year  34,872.55  5,456.92  545.82  3,359.54  44,234.83  Additions during the year  21,963.66  6,397.74  1,262.55  -  29,623.95  Net expenditure during the year  (Note - 2.2)  -  -  -  2,404.51  2,404.51  Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment (Note 2)  (25,098.06)  -  -  - (25,098.06) Transfer to Property, Plant and Equipment - Direct  Addition (Note 2)  -  -  (4.12)  -  (4.12) Transfer to Statement of Profit and Loss  (1.14)  (0.05)  -  -  (1.19) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  3,037.68  (3,346.88)  (678.13)  (2,410.63)  (3,397.96)  34,774.69  8,507.73  1,126.12  3,353.42  47,761.96  Provision for Capital Losses  (189.58)  (22.30)  -  -  (211.88) Balance as at end of the year  34,585.11  8,485.43  1,126.12  3,353.42  47,550.08  (J in crore) Particulars Amount of CWIP for a period of TotalLess than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  30,772.46  18,954.32  5,408.26  2,058.69  57,193.73  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  153.80  42.31  1.79  172.46  370.36  Total  30,926.26  18,996.63  5,410.05  2,231.15  57,564.09  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  27,279.18  11,919.66  5,159.84  3,224.82  47,583.50  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  0.60  2.35  16.88  158.63  178.46  Total  27,279.78  11,922.01  5,176.72  3,383.45  47,761.96  NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS Current Year Previous Year A.
Includes H 673.75 crore (2023:H 497.04 crore) towards Capital Expenditure relating to ongoing Oil & Gas Exploration & Production activities.
Ageing of Capital Work in Progress NOTE - 2: PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Contd..) Details of assets given on operating lease included in Property, Plant and Equipment: (J in crore) Asset Particulars Gross Block Accumulated  Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated  Impairment Loss W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2024 W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2023 Land - Freehold  12.90  -  -  12.90  17.39  ROU Asset (Land - Leasehold)  91.27  21.27  -  70.00  68.35  Buildings  113.35  28.64  0.17  84.54  128.95  Plant and Equipment  209.40  44.12  -  165.28  240.63  Office Equipment  11.51  8.36  -  3.15  5.51  Furniture  1.14  0.50  -  0.64  0.94  Drainage, Sewage & Water Supply  1.54  0.14  -  1.40  1.43  Total  441.11  103.03  0.17  337.91  463.20  (J in crore) Asset Particulars Name of Joint Owner* Gross Block Accumulated  Depreciation &  Amortisation Accumulated  Impairment  Loss W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2024 W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2023 Land - Freehold HPCL, BPCL  9.65  -  -  9.65  1.59  ROU Asset (Land - Leasehold) BPCL  0.05  0.01  -  0.04  0.05  Buildings HPCL, BPCL, Others  72.00  24.90  -  47.10  38.22  Plant and Equipment HPCL, BPCL, RIL, Others  66.81  28.78  -  38.03  46.21  Office Equipment BPCL  1.00  0.54  -  0.46  0.21  Railway Sidings HPCL, BPCL  18.39  8.77  -  9.62  9.05  Drainage,Sewage & Water Supply HPCL, BPCL, GSFC  0.40  0.08  -  0.32  0.36  Total  168.30  63.08  -  105.22  95.69  (J in crore) Asset Particulars  Exchange Fluctuation  Borrowing Cost 2023-2024 2022-2023 2023-2024 2022-2023 Buildings  (0.15)  6.37  66.94  32.41  Plant and Equipment  (8.55)  346.94  1,041.23  1,056.58  Office Equipment  -  0.14  7.40  0.24  Furniture & Fixtures  -  -  0.48  0.10  Railway Sidings  -  -  0.23  3.76  Drainage,Sewage & Water Supply  (0.34)  14.63  -  5.15  Total  (9.04)  368.08  1,116.28  1,098.24  Details of Group's share of Jointly Owned Assets included in Property, Plant and Equipment: * HPCL: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., BPCL: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., GSFC: Gujarat State Fertilizers & Chemicals Ltd., RIL: Reliance Industries Ltd.
Additions to Gross Block Includes:  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 346 347  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Amount of CWIP for a period of Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  2,150.23  -  -  -   - Infrastructure development to facilitate import of Grid power  556.93  -  -  -   - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat Refinery  595.30  -  -  -   - Ethanol production from PSA Off gas at Panipat Refinery (3G)  157.37  -  -  -   - Catalyst Manufacturing Unit at Panipat Refinery  241.43  -  -  -   - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  649.90  -  -  -   - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  628.52  -  -  -   - Infrastructure at Dumad for Koyali Ahmednagar Solapur  Pipeline (KASPL)  207.85  -  -  -   - Additional Tankages Project at Paradip Refinery  375.10  -  -  -   - MEG Project at Paradip Refinery  177.34  -  -  -   - Acrylics / Oxo Alcohol Project  2,613.86  -  -  -   - Catalytic Dewaxing Unit  526.37  -  -  -   - Infrastructure for utilization of Natural Gas  129.43  -  -  -   - Installation Of Standby SRU Train  171.24  -  -  -   - 30” Haldia-Barauni Crude oil pipeline and conversion of  existing 18” Haldia-Barauni section to Product & Gas service  2,617.23  -  -  -   - Ennore Tuticorin Bengaluru Natural Gas Pipeline  2,219.91  -  -  -   - Koyali Ahmednagar Solapur Pipeline  867.89  -  -  -   - Paradip-Hyderabad Pipeline  767.47  -  -  -   - Replacement of existing Twin 42” Offshore Pipelines at  Vadinar along with two Existing Pipeline end manifolds  and one old Buoy  625.81  -  -  -   - Paradip-Somnathpur-Haldia Pipeline  497.73  -  -  -   - Augmentation of PHDPL and its extension upto Patna and  Muzaffarpur  338.82  -  -  -   - Muzaffarpur-Motihari LPG Pipeline  188.75  -  -  -   - Cochin LPG Import facility  662.30  -  -  -   - LPG Import Facility at Paradip  615.00  -  -  -   - Augmentation of Kandla LPG Import Terminal  306.72  -  -  -   - POL Terminal at Atchutapuram  272.85  -  -  -   - TOP at Solapur Depot  256.52  -  -  -   - Vizag Terminal Revamping  50.00  101.48  -  -   - KASO Admin Building, Guest House,Quarters & Transit  124.24  -  -  -   - LPG BP at Kharagpur  103.54  -  -  -   - BK-CBM-2001/1  250.32  -  -  -   - NK-CBM-2001/1  -  -  124.42  -   - RESID-COKE Handling System  274.82  -  -  -   - Other Projects *  1,918.24  78.87  1.81  3.08  Total  22,139.04  180.35  126.23  3.08  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - 80 TPH PETCOKE FIRED BOILER Project  -  -  -  120.92   - Other Projects *  16.74  -  -  39.92  Total  16.74  -  -  160.84  Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its Original Plan * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Other Projects.
Completion Schedule of Capital Work in Progress for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has Exceeded its Original Plan NOTE - 2.1: CAPITAL WORK IN PROGRESS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Amount of CWIP for a period of Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  - Guwahati Refinery Expansion  277.12  -  -  -   - Barauni Refinery Expansion  7,922.17  -  -  -   - Acrylics / Oxo Alcohol Project at Dumad, Gujarat  2,366.90  -  -  -   - Petrochemical and Lube Integration Project at Gujarat Refinery  -  5,712.84  -  -   - RLNG Infrastructure at Haldia Refinery  127.48  -  -  -   - 2G Ethanol Project at Panipat Refinery  622.28  -  -  -   - Ethanol production from PSA off gas at Panipat Refinery (3G)  148.02  -  -  -   - Catalyst Plant at Panipat Refinery  166.96  -  -  -   - PX-PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  363.21  -  -  -   - PBR Project at Panipat Refinery  -  95.13  -  -   - Panipat Refinery Expansion  -  9,305.46  -  -   - Additional Storage Tanks at Paradip Refinery  434.99  -  -  -   - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project at Paradip Refinery  1,588.60  -  -  -   - Installation of Standby SRU Train along with Incinerator at  Paradip Refinery  267.02  -  -  -   - Integrated Para Xylene (PX) and Purified Terephthalic Acid  (PTA) Project at Paradip Refinery  -  5,867.45  -  -   - Infrastructure for R-LNG Utilization Project at Paradip Refinery  138.85  -  -  -   - 30” Haldia-Barauni Crude oil pipeline and conversion of  existing 18” Haldia-Barauni section to Product & Gas service  138.34  -  -  -   - Ennore Tuticorin Bengaluru Natural Gas Pipeline  716.85  -  -  -   - Paradip-Hyderabad Pipeline  602.66  -  -  -   - Augmentation of Salaya Mathura Crude Oil Pipeline System  783.49  -  -  -   - Lube Complex at Amullavoyal  715.71  -  -  -   - Chittoor LPG Bottling Plant  118.96  -  -  -   - POL Terminal at Malkapur  257.39  -  -  -   - Vizag Terminal Revamping  114.13  -  -  -   - Khordha Bottling Plant  118.39  -  -  -   - BK-CBM-2001/1  302.06  -  -  -   - NK-CBM-2001/1  -  142.02  -  -   - New R&D Campus  -  758.91  -  -   - Other Projects *  2,596.97  149.57  -  0.48  Total  20,888.55  22,031.38  -  0.48  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - 80 TPH Petcoke Fired Boiler Project at Guwahati Refinery  -  -  -  120.38   - Other Projects *  12.67  -  -  81.91  Total  12.67  -  -  202.29  * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Other Projects Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 348 349  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 3: INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Contd..) Previous Year (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Right of way  1,522.43  1,430.76  (J in crore) Particulars Total Balance as at beginning of the year  6,432.47  Net expenditure during the year  1,251.17  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (431.71) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  (647.04)  6,604.89  Provision for Loss  (2,889.33) Balance as at end of the year  3,715.56  (J in crore) Particulars Right of Way  (Refer B) Licences Computer Software  (Refer C) Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2022  1,380.44  3,346.37  427.21  5,154.02  Additions during the year  76.85  0.30  33.49  110.64  Transfers from Intangible Assets under  Development  -  296.75  35.55  332.30  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers /  Reclassifications/ FCTR  -  142.11  (0.94)  141.17  Gross Block as at March 31, 2023  1,457.29  3,785.53  495.31  5,738.13  DEPRECIATION,  AMORTISATION AND  IMPAIRMENT Amortisation as at April 01, 2022  23.17  1,102.05  319.68  1,444.90  Amortisation during the year  0.47  214.29  77.40  292.16  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers /  Reclassifications/ FCTR  -  60.45  2.49  62.94  Amortisation as at March 31, 2023  23.64  1,376.79  399.57  1,800.00  Impairment Loss as at April 01, 2022  0.27  390.52  -  390.79  Impairment Loss reversed during the year  -  32.86  -  32.86  Impairment Loss as at March 31, 2023  0.27  423.38  -  423.65  Net Block as at March 31, 2023  1,433.38  1,985.36  95.74  3,514.48  (J in crore) Asset Particulars Name of Joint  Owner* Gross Block Accumulated  Depreciation &  Amortisation W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2024 W.D.V.
as at  March 31,  2023 Computer Software HPCL, BPCL  3.73  1.32  2.41  0.13  Total  3.73  1.32  2.41  0.13  A. Amortisation for the year includes H 0.14 crore (2023: NIL) relating to construction period expenses taken to Note 2.2 B.
Net Block of Intangible assets with indefinite useful life:  Right of way for laying pipelines are acquired on a perpetual basis.
C. Details of Company's share of Jointly Owned Assets included in the above:  * HPCL: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., BPCL: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT Current Year Note - 2.2: CONSTRUCTION PERIOD EXPENSES (NET) DURING THE YEAR NOTE - 3: INTANGIBLE ASSETS Current Year (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Employee Benefit Expenses  430.77  445.26  Repairs and Maintenance  2.29  6.29  Consumption of Stores and Spares  0.01  0.02  Power & Fuel  21.96  97.05  Rent  7.66  31.80  Rates and Taxes  2.18  5.63  Travelling Expenses  38.92  60.48  Communication Expenses  1.41  1.69  Printing and Stationery  0.52  1.19  Electricity and Water Charges  18.89  9.97  Bank Charges  0.76  0.04  Technical Assistance Fees  1.40  0.79  Finance Costs A  821.25  1,497.42  Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment on :  Property, Plant and Equipment  74.08  61.48   Intangible Assets  -  -  Start Up/ Trial Run Expenses (net of revenue)  (15.07)  153.61  Others  76.36  86.57  Total Expenses  1,483.39  2,459.29  Less : Recoveries  79.33  54.78  Net Expenditure during the year  1,404.06  2,404.51  (J in crore) Particulars Right of Way  (Refer B) Licences Computer Software  (Refer C) Total GROSS BLOCK Gross Block as at April 01, 2023  1,457.29  3,785.53  495.31  5,738.13  Additions during the year  91.66  27.14  30.52  149.32  Transfers from Intangible Assets under  Development  -  291.85  139.86  431.71  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers /  Reclassifications/ FCTR  -  27.68  (3.48)  24.20  Gross Block as at March 31, 2024  1,548.95  4,132.20  662.21  6,343.36  DEPRECIATION,  AMORTISATION AND  IMPAIRMENT Total Amortisation as at April 01, 2023  23.64  1,376.79  399.57  1,800.00  Amortisation during the year  0.29  193.31  69.21  262.81  Disposals/ Deductions / Transfers /  Reclassifications/ FCTR  -  13.41  (0.10)  13.31  Total Amortisation as at March 31, 2024  23.93  1,583.51  468.68  2,076.12  Total Impairment as at April 01, 2023  0.27  423.38  -  423.65  Impairment Loss reversed during the year  -  6.36  -  6.36  Total Impairment as at March 31, 2024  0.27  429.74  -  430.01  Net Block as at March 31, 2024  1,524.75  2,118.95  193.53  3,837.23  A.
Rate of Specific borrowing eligible for capitalisation is 1.08% to 8.04% (2023: 1.08% to 8.04%) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 350 351  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (Contd..) * Projects with actual expenditure less than H 100 crore have been clubbed under Other Projects (J in crore)  To be completed in Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  - NCU Expansion at Panipat Refinery  48.53   - Acrlycs/ OXO Alcohol project at Gujarat Refinery  189.18   - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project  45.96   - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat  97.11   - Catalytic Dewaxing Unit  43.10   - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat  10.14   - BK-CBM-2001/1  30.86   - NK-CBM-2001/1  25.25   - Shakthi Gabon  161.44   - Others *  5.50  61.74  -  -  Total  470.38  61.74  25.25  161.44  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery  132.21   - Farsi, Iran  126.26   - Others *  -  -  -  220.46  Total  -  -  -  478.93  NOTE - 3.1: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT Previous Year (J in crore) Particulars Total Balance as at beginning of the year  6,261.34  Net expenditure during the year  1,143.70  Transfer to Intangible Assets (Note 3)  (332.30) Other Allocation/ Adjustment during the year  (640.27)  6,432.47  Provision for Loss  (2,849.08) Balance as at end of the year  3,583.39  Intangible assets under development are mainly in the nature of Exploration & Production Blocks and Licences & Computer Softwares.
Amount above Includes H 1,957.32 crore (2023: H 2,021.23 crore) towards Capital Expenditure (Net) relating to ongoing Oil & Gas  Exploration & Production activities.
Ageing of Intangible Assets under Development (J in crore) Amount of Intangible Assets under development for a period of TotalLess than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  215.07  394.81  131.06  5,384.31  6,125.25  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  0.70  -  0.28  478.66  479.64  Total  215.77  394.81  131.34  5,862.97  6,604.89  Previous Year i) Projects in Progress  430.12  129.04  322.48  5,071.89  5,953.53  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  -  0.28  11.35  467.31  478.94  Total  430.12  129.32  333.83  5,539.20  6,432.47  (J in crore) To be completed in Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3 years Current Year i) Projects in Progress  - Guwahati Refinery Expansion  15.01 - - -  - Barauni Refinery Expansion  151.60 - - -  - Acrylics / Oxo Alcohol Project at Dumad, Gujarat  226.92 - - -  - Petrochemical and Lube Integration Project at Gujarat  Refinery -  207.77   - 2G Ethanol Plant at Panipat  10.32 - - -  - Ethanol production from PSA off gas at Panipat Refinery  0.35 - - -  - PX/PTA Expansion at Panipat Refinery  144.57 - - -  - PBR Project at Panipat -  66.38 - -  - Panipat Refinery Expansion  -  383.32 - -  - Fuel Quality Upgradation Project at Paradip Refinery  96.26 - - -  - Integrated Para Xylene (PX) and Purified Terephthalic Acid  (PTA) Project at Paradip  -  195.68 - -  - BK-CBM-2001/1  30.86 - - -  - NK-CBM-2001/1 -  25.25   - Shakthi Gabon - -  173.72   - Others *  21.66  2.55  -  -  Total  697.55  880.95  -  173.72  ii) Projects temporarily suspended  - Residue Upgradation Project at Mathura Refinery - - -  132.21   - Farsi, Iran - - -  126.26   - Others *  -  -  -  221.16  Total  -  -  -  479.63  Completion Schedule of Intangible Assets under Development for Projects where Completion is Overdue or Cost has  Exceeded its Original Plan NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS Particulars Investment  Currency Face Value March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Number Carrying value  (J in crore) Number Carrying value  (J in crore) NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS: I Equity Shares A In Associates (Equity Method*):  Quoted: Petronet LNG Limited Indian Rupees 10 187500000  2,156.19 187500000  1,908.07  Unquoted: Avi-Oil India Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 4500000  24.72 4500000  22.24  Petronet India Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 0.10 18000000  0.47 18000000  0.47  Petronet VK Limited Indian Rupees 10 50000000  0.02 50000000  0.02  Sub-total: (I)(A) 2,181.40 1,930.80  B In Joint Ventures (Equity Method*): UNQUOTED: IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited Indian Rupees 10 500972175  886.22 494828289  760.01  Lubrizol India Private Limited Indian Rupees 100 499200  215.46 499200  179.82  Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 134000000  776.63 134000000  691.53  Petronet CI Limited (under liquidation) Indian Rupees 10 3744000  - 3744000  -  Green Gas Limited Indian Rupees 10 25287250  250.72 23047250  201.53  IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 25950000  126.13 25950000  121.46  Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Naira 1 2500000  - 2500000  -  Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 60680000  88.73 60680000  95.96  Indian Synthetic Rubbers Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 222861375  457.03 222861375  371.54  NPCIL-IndianOil Nuclear Energy  Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 10 260000  0.41 260000  0.39  GSPL India Gasnet Limited Indian Rupees 10 574925012  504.94 491925030  458.29  GSPL India Transco Limited Indian Rupees 10 157820000  83.66 157820000  87.67  Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 658865000  687.40 653365000  660.06  Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility  Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 52918750  107.92 52918750  102.65  Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 560640000  539.42 550000000  534.54  IndianOil LNG Private Limiteda Indian Rupees 10 4500  - 4500  -  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 352 353  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Particulars Investment  Currency Face Value March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Number Carrying value  (J in crore) Number Carrying value  (J in crore) Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited Indian Rupees 10 2642985000  3,009.95 2295955000  2,269.89  Ratnagiri Refineries & Petrochemicals  Limited Indian Rupees 10 100000000  53.49 100000000  55.94  Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited Indian Rupees 10 222360000  227.10 198000000  199.78  IHB Limited Indian Rupees 10 1529000000  1,521.36 1529000000  1,525.43  IndianOil Total Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 30000000  34.78 22500000  22.57  IOC Phinergy Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 4187500  1.58 1717500  0.54  Paradeep Plastic Park Limited Indian Rupees 10 32720000  33.36 32720000  32.92  Cauvery Basin Refinery and  Petrochemicals Limited Indian Rupees 10 25000  0.02  -  -  IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private  Limited Indian Rupees 10 50000  0.05  -  -  GH4India Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 1000000  -  -  -  Indian Additives Limited Indian Rupees 100 1183401  239.79 1183401  205.95  National Aromatics and Petrochemical  Corporation Limited Indian Rupees 10 25000  - 25000  -  VANKOR India Pte Limited USD 1 481868589  3,154.99 568968589  4,157.19  TAAS India Pte Limited USD 1 330891730  2,381.70 407941730  2,984.79  Urja Bharat Pte.
Limited USD 1 72400100  318.23 37500100  236.11  Bharat Energy Office LLC RUB 1000000 1  0.39 1  0.54  Falcon Oil & Gas BV USD 1 30  197.47 30  132.99  Beximco IOC Petroleum & Energy Limited Bangladeshi Taka 10 1113250  - 1113250  0.45  Mer Rouge Oil Storage Terminal Co Ltd  ("MOST") Mauritian  Rupees 1000 16800  16.67 16800  16.97  Sub-total: (I)(B) 15,915.60 16,107.51  Total Investments in Associates & JVs  [(I)(A)+(I)(B)] 18,097.00 18,038.31  Particulars Investment  Currency Face Value March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Number Fair Value  (J in crore) Number Fair Value  (J in crore)  C In Others (Designated at FVTOCI) Quoted: Oil and Natural Gas Corporation  Limited Indian Rupees 5 986885142  26,453.45 986885142  14,906.90  GAIL (India) Limited Indian Rupees 10 163358190  2,957.60 163358190  1,717.71  Oil India Limited Indian Rupees 10 53501100  3,211.40 53501100  1,346.35  Phinergy Limited USD 148 14873892  188.24 4138500  25.63  Lanzatech Global Inc. USD 10 6025762  155.56 6025762  192.12  Unquoted: International Cooperative Petroleum  Association, New York USD 100 350  0.02 350  0.02  Haldia Petrochemical Limited Indian Rupees 10 150000000  661.20 150000000  968.85  Indian Gas Exchange Limited Indian Rupees 10 3693750  13.36 3693750  12.50  Vasitars Private Limited Indian Rupees 10 1470  0.77 1470  0.77  Vadodara Enviro Channel Limitedb Indian Rupees 10 7151  - 7151  -  Shama Forge Co. Limitedc (under  liquidation) Indian Rupees 10 100000  - 100000  -  BioTech Consortium India Limited Indian Rupees 10 100000  0.10 100000  0.10  Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminal  Limited  Sri Lankan  Rupees 10 250000000  147.35 250000000  122.04  Trinco Petroleum Terminal Private  Limited Sri Lankan  Rupees 10 9800000  2.72 4900000  1.23  *Investment in Joint Ventures/ Associates have been shown as per equity method of consolidation.
Carrying value of investments have been reduced by share of  losses and wherever other long term interest in the entity exists, unadjusted losses,if any, have been set-off against such interest.
NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd..) NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd..) Particulars Investment  Currency Face Value March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Number Fair Value  (J in crore) Number Fair Value  (J in crore)  Carabobo Ingenieria Y  Construcciones S.A. USD 12.1% of  Capital Stock  - 12.1% of  Capital Stock  -  Petrocarabobo S.A. USD 3.5% of Capital  Stock  43.94 3.5% of  Capital Stock  43.15  In Consumer Cooperative Societies: Baraunid Indian Rupees 10 250  - 250  -  Guwahatie Indian Rupees 10 750  - 750  -  Mathuraf Indian Rupees 10 200  - 200  -  Haldiag Indian Rupees 10 2190  - 2190  -  In Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer  Stores Limited, Delhih Indian Rupees 10 375  - 375  -  MRL Industrial Cooperative Service  Society Ltd Indian Rupees 10 9000  0.01 9000  0.01  Sub-total: (I)(C) 33,835.72 19,337.38  Sub-total: (I) 51,932.72 37,375.69  II Share Warrants (Designated at  FVTOCI) In Joint Ventures (Adjusted for  equity method) Unquoted: IndianOil LNG Private Limited  (Refer Note B.4 ) Indian Rupees 9.99 3665000000  3,229.32  -  -  Sub-total: (II) 3,229.32  -  III Preference Shares (At FVTPL) In Others Unquoted: Shama Forge Co. Limited i  (under liquidation) 9.5% Cumulative  Redeemable Preference Shares Indian Rupees 100 5000  - 5000  -  Sub-total: (III)  -  -  IV Government Securities (At FVTOCI) Quoted: (Note A and B) 9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10000  -  - 206000  219.19  7.35% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10000  -  - 695000  709.56  Sub-total: (IV)  - 928.75  V Debentures or Bonds (At FVTPL) (Investments in JV adjusted for equity  method) Unquoted: IndianOil LNG Private Limited Indian Rupees  -  -  - 36650  3,449.48  (7.45% Fully and Compulsorily  Convertible Debentures) Sub-total: (V)  -  3,449.48  Total Other Investments [(I) (C)+(II)+(III)+(IV)+(V)]  37,065.04  23,715.61  Total Non Current Investments  (I+II+III+IV+V)  55,162.04  41,753.92  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 354 355  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd..) Particulars Investment  Currency Face Value March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Number Fair Value  (J in crore) Number Fair Value  (J in crore)  CURRENT INVESTMENTS :  Unquoted: (At FVTPL) Unit Trust Investment (NAV) Sri Lankan  Rupees  412.17  66.76  Investment through portfolio  management services Sri Lankan  Rupees  436.79  208.08  I Government Securities (At FVTOCI) Quoted: Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special  Bonds Indian Rupees 10000 6729510  6,768.92 8183020  8,295.48  9.15% Govt Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10000 1960000  2,052.45 1754000  1,866.22  7.35% Govt.Stock 2024 Indian Rupees 10000 695000  709.53  -  -  Total Current Investments  10,379.86  10,436.54  (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31,2024 March 31,2023 March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Aggregate carrying value of quoted investments  35,122.44  21,025.53  9,530.90  10,161.70  Aggregate market value of quoted investments  37,901.25  23,408.40  9,530.90  10,161.70  Aggregate carrying value of unquoted  investments  20,039.60  20,728.39  848.96  274.84  Aggregate amount of impairment in value of  investments  -  -  -  -  (J in crore) Nature of Bond March 31,2024 No.
of Bonds Face Value Investment Value Carrying Value  Amount  Amount  Amount  Current investment: 8.20% GOI Special Bonds 2024 3105060  3,105.06  3,105.06  3,128.31  7.95% GOI Special Bonds 2025 457250  457.25  457.25  466.46  8.00% GOI Special Bonds 2026 189270  189.27  189.27  191.68  6.90% GOI Special Bonds 2026 2977930  2,977.93  2,977.93  2,982.47  Total Current Investments 6729510 6,729.51 6,729.51 6,768.92 (J in crore) Particulars March 31,2024 March 31,2023 Face Value Investment  Value Carrying  Value Face Value Investment  Value  Carrying  Value  9.15% Govt.
Stock 2024  6.00  6.84  6.28  206.00  234.70  219.19  7.35% Govt.
Stock 2024  -  -  -  695.00  704.04  709.56  Note: An Investment in Oil Marketing Companies GOI Special Bonds consists of: Note: B - Other Disclosures 1 During the year, 7.35% Govt Stock of investment value of H 704.04 crore and 9.15% Govt Stock of investment value of H 234.70 crore  were reclassified from Non Current Investment to Current Investment.
2 Following Government Securities pledged in favour of Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) for Loans through Tri-party Repo  Segment (TREPS) of CCIL.
3 Oil Marketing Companies 8.20% GOI Special Bonds 2024 of investment value H 3,000 crore (Carrying value H 3,022.46 crore) and  6.90% GOI Special Bonds 2026 of investment value H 2,525 crore (Carrying value H 2,528.85 crore) has been used as collateral  against availment of overnight borrowings through CROMS platform of CCIL.
NOTE - 4: INVESTMENTS (Contd..) 4 During the year, the Compulsorily Convertible Debentures in Indian Oil LNG Private Limited amounting to H 3665 crore were  converted into Optionally Convertible Debentures and the Parent Company exercised its option to redeem the same.
The Parent  Company has subscribed to 366.50 crore share warrants of Indian Oil LNG Private Limited at a price of H 3661.34 crore (H 9.99 per  warrant).
Each warrant entitles the holder to subscribe to and be allotted 1 share (face value H 10), at a predetermined exercise  price of H 0.01 per warrant, within the exercise period of 15 years.
5 Following are not reflecting above due to rounding off:- (Amount in J) Particulars  March 31,2024 March 31,2023 a IndianOil LNG Private Limited 45000 45000 b Vadodara Enviro Channel Limited 10 10 c Shama Forge Co. Limited 100 100 d Barauni Consumer Cooperative Societies 2500 2500 e Guwahati Consumer Cooperative Societies 2500 2500 f Mathura Consumer Cooperative Societies 2000 2000 g Haldia Consumer Cooperative Societies 16630 16630 h Indian Oil Cooperative Consumer Stores Limited, Delhi 3750 3750 i Shama Forge Co. Limited 100 100 6 All the investments are fully paid up.
NOTE - 5: LOANS (At amortised cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 Loans To Related Parties  Secured, Considered Good  0.38  0.27  0.06  0.05   Unsecured, Considered Good  0.21  0.14  15.54  15.51   Credit Impaired  224.66  224.66  -  -   225.25  225.07  15.60  15.56   Less : Allowance for Doubtful Loans  224.66  224.66  -  -   0.59  0.41  15.60  15.56  To Others  Secured, Considered Good  1,369.32  1,088.40  158.20  129.82   Unsecured, Considered Good  1,397.37  1,378.74  356.51  274.06   Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  200.24  105.25  46.70  22.89   Credit Impaired  630.60  383.71  233.49  201.59   3,597.53  2,956.10  794.90  628.36   Less : Allowance for Doubtful Loans  A  1,011.14  686.40  317.56  249.19   2,586.39  2,269.70  477.34  379.17  Total  2,586.98  2,270.11  492.94  394.73  A.
Includes provision as per Expected Credit Loss model and  applying experience factor on loans considered good and  those which have significant increase in Credit Risk  380.54  302.69  84.07  47.60  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 356 357  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 6: OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (Unsecured, Considered Good at amortised cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 Income/Current Tax Asset/ (Liability) - Net  Advance payments for Current Tax  11,267.02  15,441.88  10,741.68  11.15   Less : Provisions  9,439.04  13,584.66  11,695.23  29.37   1,827.98  1,857.22  (953.55)  (18.22) Income/Current Tax Asset  1,827.98  1,857.22  0.82  11.15  Income/Current Tax (Liability)  (954.37)  (29.37) Income/Current Tax Asset/ (Liability) - Net  1,827.98  1,857.22  (953.55)  (18.22) (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 Security Deposits To Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  4.12  4.10  To Others  Secured, Considered Good  0.11  0.11  -  -   Unsecured, Considered Good  304.68  231.42  75.77  64.60   Credit Impaired  -  -  1.39  1.36   304.79  231.53  81.28  70.06  Less: Allowance for Doubtful Deposits  -  -  1.39  1.36   304.79  231.53  79.89  68.70  Advances for Investments    A  1,604.67  1,514.01  Amount Recoverable from Central/State Governments  -  -  1,779.23  817.20  Finance Lease Receivables  -  0.01  -  0.73  Interest Accrued on Investments/ Bank Deposits/ Loans  -  -  -  0.35  Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -  -  2.98  218.12  Advance to Employee Benefits Trusts/Funds  -  -  279.28  543.04  Bank Deposits (with original maturity of more than 12  months)       B  445.69  1.74  0.84  0.63  Claims Recoverable: From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  54.52  55.01   Credit Impaired  -  -  26.90  26.90   -  -  81.42  81.91  From Others  Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  256.50  420.30   Credit Impaired  -  -  229.15  195.66   -  -  485.65  615.96  Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -  -  256.05  222.56   -  -  229.60  393.40   -  -  311.02  475.31  Others:  Unsecured, Considered Good  -  1.07  305.14  237.05   Credit Impaired  -  -  25.73  17.55   -  1.07  330.87  254.60   Less: Allowance for doubtful asset  -  -  25.73  17.55   -  1.07  305.14  237.05  Total  2,355.15  1,748.36  2,758.38  2,361.13  A.
Represents equity share application money pending allotment.
The allotment of equity shares is expected to be made as per  Companies Act, 2013 and other laws as applicable.
B.
Earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities/ provided as Security to participate in Tender.
NOTE - 7: INCOME TAX/CURRENT TAX ASSET/ (LIABILITY) - NET NOTE - 8: OTHER ASSETS (NON FINANCIAL) (Unsecured, Considered Good unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 Advances for Capital Expenditure To Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  10.29  -     10.29  -    To Others  Secured, Considered Good  3.30  8.38   Unsecured, Considered Good  2,301.58  1,625.49   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  9.32  9.32   2,314.20  1,643.19   2,324.49  1,643.19  Less: Provision for Doubtful Advances  9.32  9.32   2,315.17  1,633.87  Advances Recoverable From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  1,198.98  1,229.82  28.79  22.24  From Others  Unsecured, Considered Good  279.37  176.07  3,494.22  3,262.02   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -  -  4.87  4.88   279.37  176.07  3,499.09  3,266.90  Less : Provision for Doubtful Advances  -  -  4.87  4.88   279.37  176.07  3,494.22  3,262.02   1,478.35  1,405.89  3,522.67  3,284.26  Claims Recoverable: From Others  Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  801.14  831.21   Unsecured, Considered Doubtful  -  -  61.90  15.97   -  -  863.04  847.18   Less : Provision for Doubtful Claims  -  -  61.90  15.97   -  -  801.14  831.21   -  -  801.14  831.21  Balance/ Deposits with Government Authorities Unsecured, Considered Good  -  -  613.39  641.89  Gold / Other Precious Metals  -  -  112.23  104.60  Less : Provision for Diminution in value  -  -  15.74  9.68   -  -  96.49  94.92  Deferred Expenses (Refer Note - 39)  1,139.68  1,000.93  114.37  99.86  Prepaid Rentals  18.17  30.26  74.62  80.18  Pre-Spent Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses  -  -  35.29  6.48  Others  -  -  8.58  8.19  Total  4,951.37  4,070.95  5,266.55  5,046.99  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 In Hand :  Raw Materials  32,213.40  30,279.39   Work-In-Progress  10,993.86  10,846.81   Finished Products  43,636.65  41,660.50   Stock in Trade  8,807.96  10,637.57   Stores, Spares etc.
6,848.97  6,316.94   Less : Provision for Losses  320.90  276.87   6,528.07  6,040.07   Barrels and Tins  90.22  109.81   1,02,270.16  99,574.15  NOTE - 9: INVENTORIES Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 358 359  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 9: INVENTORIES (Contd...) NOTE - 10: TRADE RECEIVABLES (At amortised cost) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 In Transit :  Raw Materials  15,164.75  16,086.41   Finished Products  1,182.18  1,298.75   Stock in Trade  2,470.42  3,878.69   Stores, Spares etc.
288.32  269.58   19,105.67  21,533.43  Total  1,21,375.83  1,21,107.58  Amount of write down of inventories carried at NRV and recognised as Expense.
1,005.17  248.21  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 From Related Parties  Unsecured, Considered Good  628.93  558.79   Credit Impaired  9.69  9.55   638.62  568.34  From Others  Secured Considered Good  0.13  12.45   Unsecured, Considered Good  13,342.45  15,677.48   Which have significant increase in Credit Risk  -  506.74   Credit Impaired  208.68  155.84   13,551.26  16,352.51  Total  14,189.88  16,920.85  Less : Allowance for Doubtful Debts     A  358.43  522.16  Total  13,831.45  16,398.69  A.
Includes provision as per Expected Credit Loss method in line with accounting policy  on good and those which have significant increase in credit risk   140.06  356.77  Valuation of inventories are done as per point no.
7 of material accounting policies (Note - 1).
For hypothecation details refer Note-21.
(J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment TotalLess  than 6   months 6 months-   1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years More  than 3  years Current Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  35.91  9,088.70  3,982.21  188.36  177.46  152.14  62.50  13,687.28  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables –  credit impaired  -  -  -  55.56  0.35  0.31  74.03  130.25  iii) Disputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  4.62  12.77  16.21  20.37  38.06  44.65  147.55  284.23  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables –  credit impaired  -  -  -  -  0.15  0.24  87.73  88.12  Total  40.53 9,101.47 3,998.42  264.29  216.02  197.34  371.81 14,189.88  Previous Year i) Undisputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  166.38  7,413.72  6,986.78  843.87  453.77  83.12  50.51  15,998.15  ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables –  which have significant increase in  credit risk  -  506.74  -  -  -  -  -  506.74  iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables –  credit impaired  -  -  -  -  0.23  0.86  73.71  74.80  iv) Disputed Trade Receivables –  considered good  2.96  16.32  14.21  21.33  45.64  41.57  108.54  250.57  v) Disputed Trade Receivables –  credit impaired  -  -  -  -  0.02  0.43  90.14  90.59  Total  169.34 7,936.78 7,000.99  865.20  499.66  125.98  322.90 16,920.85  Ageing of Trade Receivables NOTE - 11: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Bank Balances with Scheduled Banks : In Current Account  954.33  615.76  In Fixed Deposit - Maturity within 3 months  264.58  346.51   1,218.91  962.27  Bank Balances with Non-Scheduled Banks  25.40  28.12  Cheques, Drafts in hand  1.31  5.41  Cash in Hand, Including Imprest  0.97  0.55  Total  1,246.59  996.35  NOTE - 12: BANK BALANCES OTHER THAN ABOVE (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Fixed Deposits A  1,501.76  696.17  Earmarked Balances B  409.83  403.51  Other Bank Balances C  0.61  0.61  Total  1,912.20  1,100.29  A) Includes Fixed Deposits earmarked in favour of Statutory Authorities.
14.12  12.98  B) Pertains to  - Unpaid Dividend  95.05  50.01   - Fractional Share Warrants  0.03  0.03   - Amount received from PM CARES Fund for procurement of Liquid Oxygen  Equipment (pending adjustment of claim amounting to H 41.33 crore (2023:  H 41.50 crore) shown as claims recoverable in Note 6)  41.33  98.62   - Grant received from Ministry of Heavy Industries for establishing EVCS at  ROs (Including Interest of H 16.61 crore (2023: H 0.05 crore) (net of TDS)  earned payable to government)  271.41  254.85   - Amount received from transporter vendor payable only as per court's  directive  2.00  -  C) There exists restrictions on repatriation/ utilisation of these balances.
(J in crore) Particulars Note March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Freehold land A  0.64  0.64  Building B  0.07  0.07  Plant and Equipment  57.69  44.46  Office Equipment  0.19  0.08  Transport Equipment  0.10  0.31  Total  58.69  45.56  Disposal Group: Cauvery Basin Refinery, Nagapattinam C Freehold land  4.96  4.96  Building  12.97  12.97  Plant and Equipment  52.00  52.02  Office Equipment  0.05  0.05  Others  1,054.98  867.87  Total  1,124.96  937.87  Total Asset held for sale  1,183.65  983.43  Total Liability directly associated with Asset held for sale  18.77  11.06  NOTE-13: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE A.
The Group has surplus land at various locations such as LPG Plant , Depots and ROs etc.
which is under the process of disposal.
The management intends to sell the land.
No impairment was recognised on reclassification of land as held for sale as the Group  expects that the fair value (estimated based on the recent market prices of similar properties in similar locations) less costs to sell  is higher than the carrying amount.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 360 361  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B.
Includes non-current assets retired from active use earlier used in various segments and held for disposal through tendering  process within a year.
During the year the Group has reclassified Assets Held for sale amounting to H 0.07 crore (2023: H 0.04 crore) as Property, Plant  and Equipment/ Other Assets based on the plan for disposal of assets.
During the year, the Group has recognized impairment loss of H 18.30 crore (2023: H 10.28 crore) on write-down of asset to fair  value less costs to sell and the same has been shown in Provision/loss on Other Assets sold or written off under 'Other Expenses'  in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
C. Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (CBRPL) has been incorporated on 6th January 2023 as a Joint Venture of  Indian Oil (Parent Company) and Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL-Subsidiary) each holding 25% equity and balance  by seed equity investors, for construction of new 9 MMTPA refinery at Cauvery Basin Nagapattinam.
The JV would be operational  upon receipt of approval by Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for equity investment in the CBR project by CPCL.
Accordingly, the land, capital work in-progress, other facilities and directly associated total liability  held by the group which are to  be transferred to the new Joint Venture, are classified under Disposal Group.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Authorized: 30,00,00,00,000 (2023: 15,00,00,00,000) Equity Shares of H 10 each  30,000.00  15,000.00  Issued Subscribed and Paid Up: 14,12,12,38,383 (2023: 14,12,12,38,383)  14,121.24  14,121.24  Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up Less: Equity Shares held under IOC Shares Trust  349.68  349.68  34,96,77,684 (2023: 34,96,77,684) Equity Shares of H 10 each fully paid up Total  13,771.56  13,771.56  A. Reconciliation of No.
of Equity Shares  Opening Balance  14,12,12,38,383  9,41,41,58,922   Shares Issued (Bonus Shares)  -  4,70,70,79,461   Closing Balance  14,12,12,38,383  14,12,12,38,383  NOTE - 14: EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL NOTE - 14: EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (Contd...) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Name of Shareholder Number of  shares held  Percentage of  Holding  Number of  shares held  Percentage of  Holding The President of India  7,27,21,99,767  51.50  7,27,21,99,767 51.50 Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited  2,00,58,22,884  14.20  2,00,58,22,884 14.20 Life Insurance Corporation of India  97,77,88,060  6.92  1,18,92,20,484 8.42 Oil India Limited  72,83,85,744  5.16  72,83,85,744 5.16 (a) Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s) without  payment being received in cash Nil (b) Aggregate number of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares - During FY 2022-23 (July  2022) in ratio of 1:2  470,70,79,461  B. Terms/Rights attached to Equity Shares  The Holding Company has only one class of equity shares having par value of H 10 each and is entitled to one vote per share.
In the  event of liquidation of the corporation, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Holding  Company in proportion to the number of equity shares held.
IOC Shares Trust (Shareholder) has waived its right to receive the dividend w.e.f.
02.03.2020.
C. Details of shareholders holdings more than 5% shares D. For the period of preceding five years as on the Balance Sheet date, the: At the beginning of the year At the end of the year % Change  during the  yearPromoter Name Number of  shares % of total  shares Number of  shares % of total  shares The President of India  7,27,21,99,767  51.50  7,27,21,99,767  51.50 - E. Details regarding shareholding of Promoters as at March 31, 2024 NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Retained Earnings General Reserve: Opening Balance  97,494.19  1,01,233.23  Add: Opening Balance Adjustment due to Ind-AS  (0.90)  -  Add: Dividend Distribution Tax Refund  2.46  -  Add: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (32.28)  (75.38) Add : Transfer from Bond Redemption Reserve  1,013.20  768.59  Less: Utilized for issue of bonus shares [including expenses (net of tax)] A  -  4,295.45  Add : Transfer from Items not reclassified to Profit or Loss  -  9.88  Add: Other Adjustment in JVs/Adj in Opening Balance  -  0.47  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  1,316.04  (147.15)  99,792.71  97,494.19  Surplus (Balance in Statement of Profit and Loss): Opening Balance  9,657.51  3,050.99  Profit for the Year  41,729.69  9,792.12  Add: Opening Balance Adjustment  (0.26)  0.11  Less: Appropriations  Interim Dividend [including expenses (net of tax)]  6,886.04  -   Final Dividend [including expenses (net of tax)]  4,131.58  3,305.36   Insurance Reserve (Net)  21.01  27.78   Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve (Net)  (0.23)  (0.28)  General Reserve  1,316.04  (147.15)  Balance carried forward to next year  39,032.50  9,657.51   1,38,825.21  1,07,151.70  Other Reserves: Bond Redemption Reserve Opening Balance  1,031.95  1,800.54  Less: Transfer to General Reserve  1,013.20  768.59   18.75  1,031.95  Capital Redemption Reserve Opening Balance  0.41  298.06  Less: Utilised for issue of Bonus Shares  0.01  (297.65)  0.42  0.41  Capital Reserve Opening Balance  428.47  428.47  Add: On Consolidation  0.09  -   428.56  428.47  Securities Premium Opening Balance  76.74  76.74  Addition/Adjustment during the year  3.20  -   79.94  76.74  Insurance Reserve Opening Balance  319.20  291.42  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  21.01  27.78   340.21  319.20  Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve Opening Balance  0.25  0.53  Add: Appropriation from Surplus  35.31  4.51  Less: Utilized during the year  35.54  4.79   0.02  0.25  Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income: Fair value of Equity Instruments Opening Balance  15,069.23  16,557.37  NOTE-13: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE (Contd...) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 362 363  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (Contd...) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Add: Fair value during the year  13,550.44  (1,478.26) Less: Transferred to General Reserve  -  9.88   28,619.67  15,069.23  Fair value of Debt Instruments Opening Balance  (10.88)  345.28  Add: Fair value during the year  6.98  (356.16)  (3.90)  (10.88) Cash Flow Hedge Reserve Opening Balance  138.67  27.32  Add: Gain/(Loss) during the year  (57.76)  135.80  Less: Transferred during the year  78.69  24.45   2.22  138.67  Translation Reserve on Consolidation Opening Balance  1,742.94  244.19  Add : Translation difference  (409.33)  1,498.75   1,333.61  1,742.94  Total  1,69,644.71  1,25,948.68  A.
Adjusted for bonus shares pertaining to those held under IOC Shares Trust NOTE - 15: OTHER EQUITY (Contd...) H. Fair value of Equity Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations of investments made by the company in equity instruments  of other entities.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  and accumulated under this reserve.
This will not be reclassified to the statement of profit and loss in subsequent periods.
I.
Fair value of Debt Instruments  This reserve represents the cumulative effect of fair value fluctuations in debt investments made by the company to earn  contractual cash flows and which are available for sale.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes are recognised  through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
This amount will be reclassified to the statement  of profit and loss in subsequent periods on disposal of respective instruments.
J.
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve  The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value of  designated portion of hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges.
The cumulative gain or loss arising on such changes  are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated under this reserve.
Such gains or losses will be  reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the hedged item occurs/ affects the statement of profit and loss.
K. Translation Reserve on Consolidation  The exchange differences arising from the translation of financial statements of foreign operations with functional currency other  than Indian rupees is recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and is presented within equity in the foreign currency  translation reserve.
Nature and Purpose of Reserves A.
Retained Earnings  The retained earnings comprises of general reserve and surplus which is used from time to time to transfer profits by appropriations.
Retained earnings is free reserve of the Company and is used for the purposes like issuing bonus shares, buy back of shares and  other purposes (like declaring Dividend etc.)
as per the approval of Board of Directors.
It includes the re-measurement of defined  benefit plan as per actuarial valuations which will not be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in subsequent periods.
B.
Bond Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, a Bond Redemption Reserve is required to be created for all bonds/ debentures issued by the  company at a specified percentage.
This reserve is created out of appropriation of profits and is transferred back to general  reserve on repayment of bonds for which it is created.
In 2019, this requirement was dispensed with in case of public issue/ private  placement of debentures by listed companies to NBFCs, Housing Finance Companies and other listed companies.
C. Capital Redemption Reserve  As per the Companies Act 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases its own shares out of free  reserves or securities premium.
A sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to capital redemption  reserve.
Utilization of this reserve is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
D. Capital Reserve  Capital Reserve was created through business combinations and shall be utilised as per the provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
E. Securities Premium  Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares.
The reserve is utilised in accordance with the  provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
F .
Insurance Reserve  Insurance Reserve is created by the company with the approval of Board of Directors to mitigate risk of loss of assets not insured  with external insurance agencies.
H 20.00 crore is appropriated by the company every year to this reserve.
On similar lines, one  of the subsidiary (CPCL) has created an Insurance Reserve in the current year with the appropriation of H 14.00 crore (including  Non Controlling Interest).
The reserve is utilised to mitigate actual losses by way of net appropriation in case any uninsured loss is  incurred.
Amount of H 6.25 crore (2023: NIL) has been utilised for recoupment of uninsured losses.
G. Corporate Social Responsibility Reserve  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Reserve is created for meeting expenses relating to CSR activities in line with CSR policy of  respective group of companies.
NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (At Amortised Cost) (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current Maturities* March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 Secured Loans Term Loans: From Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB) A  24.70  74.19  50.00  50.00  Total Secured Loans  24.70  74.19  50.00  50.00  Unsecured Loans Bonds/ Debentures:  Foreign Currency Bonds  -  -  -  9,020.60   Rupee Bonds/ Debentures B  16,913.38  22,407.72  6,194.01  2,721.04   16,913.38  22,407.72  6,194.01  11,741.64  Debentures:  Non-Convertible Debentures C  810.00  1,585.00  840.73  65.66   810.00  1,585.00  840.73  65.66  Term Loans:  From Banks/ Financial Institutions   In Foreign Currency Loans D  23,942.87  28,525.73  6,146.12  2,532.08    In Rupees E  2,750.00  8,750.00  4,036.06  1,553.15   From Government  In Rupees F  2,351.95  1,970.30  -  -   29,044.82  39,246.03  10,182.18  4,085.23  Total Unsecured Loans  46,768.20  63,238.75  17,216.92  15,892.53  Total Long-Term Borrowings  46,792.90  63,312.94  17,266.92  15,942.53  * Current maturities are carried to Note - 21: Borrowings - Current Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 364 365  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Secured Loans:  A.
Term Loan from OIDB Unsecured Loans:  B.
Repayment Schedule of Rupee Bonds/ Debentures Sl.
No.
Particulars Availed Date Rate of  Interest Date of Repayment Security Details 1 Term Loan from Oil Industry  Development Board   - H 100 crore 31st March 2020 6.16% The loan will be  for a period of 5  years with 1 year  moratorium and  repayable in 4  equal installments.
Interest payable on  quarterly basis First Mortgage and charge on  Immovable properties, both present  and future and First Charge by way of  Hypothecation on Movables including  movable machinery, machinery  spares, tools and accessories,  present and future, pertaining to BS-VI  project to the extent of outstanding.
2 Term Loan from Oil Industry  Development Board   - Rs 100 crore 30th June 2020 5.68% Sl.
No.
Particulars Date of  Allotment Coupon rate Date of redemption 1 Indian Oil 2032 (Series XXIII)  25000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 17 June 2022 7.79% p.a.
payable  annually on 17 June 9 years, 9 months & 26 days from the deemed  date of allotment, i.e.
12 April 2032 2 Indian Oil 2029 (Series XIV)  30000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 22 October 2019 7.41% p.a.
payable  annually on 22  October 10 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
22 October 2029.
3 Indian Oil 2027 (Series XXV)  25000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 25 November  2022 7.44% p.a.
payable  annually on 25  November 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
25 November 2027 4 Indian Oil 2027 (Series XXIV)  25000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 06 September  2022 7.14% p.a.
payable  annually on 6  September 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
6 September 2027 5 Indian Oil 2027 (Series XXI)  15000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 18 February 2022 6.14% p.a.
payable  annually on 18  February 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
18 February 2027 6 Indian Oil 2026 (Series XX)  12902 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 25 January 2021 5.60% p.a.
payable  annually on 25  January 4 years, 11 months & 29 days from the deemed  date of allotment i.e.
23 January 2026.
7 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XIX)  20000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 20 October 2020 5.50% p.a.
payable  annually on 20  October 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
20 October 2025.
8 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVIII)  16250 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 03 August 2020 5.40% p.a.
payable  annually on 03  August 4 years, 8 months & 8 days from the deemed  date of allotment i.e.
11 April 2025.
9 Indian Oil 2025 (Series XVI)  29950 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 06 March 2020 6.39% p.a.
payable  annually on 6 March 5 years from the deemed date of allotment i.e.
6 March 2025.
10 Indian Oil 2024 (Series XXII)  25000 debenture of Face  Value H 10,00,000 each 21 April 2022 5.84% p.a.
payable  annually on 21 April 1 year, 11 months & 29 days from the deemed  date of allotment i.e.
19 April 2024 NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd..)NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd..) Sl.
No.
Particulars Availed Date Rate of Interest Date of Redemption 1 Unsecured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of H 10 lakh  each redeemable at par - Series -I-2021 17 July 2020 5.78% Principal repayable at the end of 5 years from  date of availment.
Interest payable Annually 2 Unsecured Redeemable Non- Convertible Debentures of H 10 lakh  each redeemable at par - Series -II-2022 23 June 2021 5.44% Principal repayable at the end of 3 years from  date of availment.
Interest payable Annually C. Repayment Schedule of Non-Convertible Debentures D. Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Foreign Currency    Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment  1 USD 100 Million Term Loan 12 March 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years & 3 months  from the date of drawal 2 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI 07 April 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date  of drawal 3 USD 100 Million Term Loan - SBI - GS 14 May 2021 4 USD 400 Million Syndication loan 30 July 2021 5 USD 125 Million Term Loan from BOB 03 November 2021 6 USD 125 Million Term Loan from BOB 01 December 2021 7 USD 330 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date  of drawal 8 USD 300 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 4 years from the date  of drawal 9 USD 250 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date  of drawal 10 USD 220 Million ECB Loan from SBI London 30 December 2021 Payable immediately after 5 years & 5 months  from the date of drawal 11 USD 300 Million Syndication Loan from BOB NY 30 March 2022 Payable immediately after 2 years & 6 months  from the date of drawal 12 USD 300 Million SBI HK 29 September 2022 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date  of drawal13 USD 300 Million Syndication Loan 13 October 2022 14 USD 3 Million Greenloan from SBI Singapore 07 March 2024 15 CAD 580 Million Term Loan 16 December 2019 Payable immediately after 5 years from the date  of drawal 16 CAD 171 Million Term Loan 11 August 2023 Payable immediately after 2 years from the date  of drawal 17 DBS Bank Limited, Singapore 28 March 2024 Payable on 27 September 2025 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 366 367  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sl.
No.
Particulars of Loans Date of drawal Date of Repayment  1 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 30 June 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal2 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 22 July 2021 3 HDFC H 250 crore Term Loan 30 September 2021 4 PNB H 250 crore Term Loan 30 September 2021 Payable immediately after 35 months from drawal5 PNB H 750 crore Term Loan 06 November 2021 6 HDFC H 1,250 crore Term Loan 31 December 2021 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal 7 HDFC H 500 crore Term Loan 31 March 2022 8 EXIM Bank H 750 crore Term Loan 30 September 2022 Payable immediately after 7 years from the date of drawal 9 HDFC H 1,000 crore Term Loan 06 February 2023 Payable immediately after 3 years from the date of drawal 10 HDFC H 1,000 crore Term Loan 31 March 2023 NOTE - 16: LONG TERM BORROWINGS (Contd..) E. Repayment Schedule of Term loans from Banks/ Financial Institutions in Rupees F .
Repayment Schedule of Unsecured Interest Free Loans from Govt of Odisha  Interest free loan given by Odisha government for 15 years is disbursed in quarterly instalment of H 175 crore starting from 1 April  2016 repayable  after 15 years.
Total loan disbursed till now is H 5,600 crore which is repayable after 15 years from the quarter for  which the same is given i.e.
in quarterly instalments starting from last week of June 2031 onwards.
This loan being interest free  loan is accounted at fair value and accordingly accounting for government grant is done.
NOTE - 17: OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (At Amortised Cost unless otherwise stated) (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings  -  -  28.37  21.40  Liability for Capital Expenditure  32.10  -  10,493.97  8,421.09  Liability to Trusts and Other Funds  -  -  29.21  195.12  Employee Liabilities  -  -  2,661.60  1,827.85  Unpaid Dividend  -  -  95.05  50.01  Unpaid Matured Deposits  -  -  0.01  0.01  Derivative Instruments at Fair Value  -  -  361.08  235.97  Security Deposits  161.33  122.75  35,232.17  33,362.34  Others  39.68  38.04  1,703.45  1,331.77  Total  233.11  160.79  50,604.91  45,445.56  (J in crore) Particulars Opening   Balance Addition  during   the year Utilization  during the  year Reversals  during   the year Unwinding of discount  and changes in the  discount rate  Closing  Balance Decommissioning Liability - E&P Blocks  489.81  22.34  0.29  10.49  3.56  504.93  Previous Year Total  578.25  4.44  -  121.48  28.60  489.81  (J in crore) Particulars Opening  Balance Addition during   the year Utilization during  the year Reversals during   the year Closing  Balance* Excise  15.55  0.99  -  -  16.54  Sales Tax / GST  2,615.76  231.01  28.66  -  2,818.11  Entry Tax  5,531.90  -  -  1.02  5,530.88  Others  4,388.85  442.43  133.89  121.37  4,576.02  Total  12,552.06  674.43  162.55  122.39  12,941.55  Previous Year Total  11,935.18  1,365.63  257.56  491.19  12,552.06  Addition IncludesReversal Includes - Capitalized  10.41  7.93  - included in Raw Material  86.67  -  - included in Finance Cost  330.25  -  - included in Employee Benefit Expenses  -  -  - included in Other Expenses  247.10  9.88  - included in Other Comprehensive Income  -  56.45  - included in Other Operating Revenues  -  48.13  NOTE - 18: PROVISIONS (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 March 31, 2024 March 31,2023 Provision for Employee Benefits  917.06  911.03  123.28  111.10  Decommissioning Liability A  497.76  485.41  7.16  4.41  Contingencies for probable obligations B  -  -  12,941.55  12,552.06  Less: Deposits  -  -  2,443.73  2,511.29   -  -  10,497.82  10,040.77  Total  1,414.82  1,396.44  10,628.26  10,156.28  A.
In compliance of Ind AS 37 - “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the required information is as under : B.
In compliance of Ind AS 37 - “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the required information is as under :  * Expected timing of outflow is not ascertainable at this stage as the matters are under dispute with respective authorities.
NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET)  (i) The item wise details of Deferred Tax Liability (net):  (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2023 Provided during the  year in Statement of  Profit and Loss * Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2024 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Fixed Assets  20,850.40  1,255.27  -  22,105.67  Fair valuation of Equity instruments  231.70  -  982.09  1,213.79  Others  150.97  (4.44)  -  146.53  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  21,233.07  1,250.83  982.09  23,465.99  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 368 369  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2023 Provided during the  year in Statement of  Profit and Loss * Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2024 Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Debtors, Loans and Advance,  Investments  1,378.74  98.65  -  1,477.39  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement Scheme  1.11  (0.04)  -  1.07  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,919.58  55.30  -  2,974.88  Carry Forward Business Losses/ Unabsorbed  Depreciation  1.51  0.34  -  1.85  Remeasurement of defined benefit plan  (4.36)  (4.71)  0.15  (8.92) MTM on Hedging Instruments  (46.64)  -  45.89  (0.75) Fair value of debt instruments  (10.61)  -  22.23  11.62  Unused Tax Loss (Long Term Capital Loss)  14.59  (2.52)  -  12.07  Others  178.73  (142.65)  -  36.08  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  4,432.65  4.37  68.27  4,505.29  Deferred Tax Liability (net) (A-B)  16,800.42  1,246.46  913.82  18,960.70  (J in crore) Particulars As on  01.04.2022 Provided during the  year in Statement of  Profit and Loss * Provided  during the year  in OCI (net) Balance as on  31.03.2023 Deferred Tax Liability: Related to Fixed Assets  19,500.41  1,349.99  -  20,850.40  Fair valuation of Equity instruments  191.99  -  39.71  231.70  Others  142.77  8.20  -  150.97  Total Deferred Tax Liability (A)  19,835.17  1,358.19  39.71  21,233.07  Deferred Tax Assets: Provision on Inventories, Debtors, Loans and Advance,  Investments  1,289.99  88.75  -  1,378.74  Compensation for Voluntary Retirement Scheme  1.24  (0.13)  -  1.11  43B/40 (a)(ia)/other Disallowances etc.
2,914.01  5.57  -  2,919.58  Carry Forward Business Losses/ Unabsorbed  Depreciation  164.00  (162.49)  -  1.51  Remeasurement of defined benefit plan  (5.71)  (3.48)  4.83  (4.36) MTM on Hedging Instruments  (9.19)  -  (37.45)  (46.64) Fair value of debt instruments  (118.57)  -  107.96  (10.61) Unused Tax Loss (Long Term Capital Loss)  17.52  -  (2.93)  14.59  Others  227.51  (48.78)  -  178.73  Total Deferred Tax Assets (B)  4,480.80  (120.56)  72.41  4,432.65  Deferred Tax Liability (net) (A-B)  15,354.37  1,478.75  (32.70)  16,800.42  NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (Contd..)  * Includes translation reserve of H 15.73 crore due to translation of Opening Balance at Closing Exchange Rate.
* Includes translation reserve of H 28.29 crore due to translation of Opening Balance at Closing Exchange Rate.
(ii) Reconciliation between the average effective tax rate and the applicable tax rate is as below :  Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 % (J in crore) % (J in crore) Profit Before Tax  57,287.79  15,037.69  Tax as per applicable Tax Rate  25.168  14,418.19  25.168  3,784.69  Tax effect of: Income that are not taxable in determining taxable profit  (1.012)  (579.76)  (6.336)  (952.72) Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit  0.307  175.87  0.824  123.96  Variation in allowance/ disallowances considered  (0.241)  (138.12)  (0.625)  (94.02) Expenses/income related to prior years  0.083  47.29  0.017  2.51  Difference in tax due to income chargeable to tax at special rates  0.016  9.13  (0.056)  (8.42) NOTE - 21: BORROWINGS - CURRENT (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Secured Loans Loans Repayable on Demand From Banks/ Financial Institutions  In Foreign Currency  2,545.61  1,673.80   In Rupee   Working Capital Demand Loan     A  7,565.08  8,021.44    Cash Credit  19.06  573.86   10,129.75  10,269.10  From Others:  Loans through Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL)  B  5,554.54  1,522.67  Current maturities of long-term debt (Refer Note 16)  50.00  50.00  Total Secured Loans  15,734.29  11,841.77  Unsecured Loans Loans Repayable on Demand From Banks/ Financial Institutions  In Foreign Currency  36,057.92  39,769.91   In Rupee  7,650.96  9,297.67   43,708.88  49,067.58  Other Loans and Advances  0.58  -  Current maturities of long-term debt (Refer Note - 16)  17,216.92  15,892.53  Total Unsecured Loans  60,926.38  64,960.11  Total Short-Term Borrowings  76,660.67  76,801.88  A.
Against hypothecation by way of first pari passu charge on Inventories, Trade  Receivables, Outstanding monies, Receivables, Claims, Contracts, Engagements to  SBI and HDFC Banks.
The quarterly returns of current assets filed by the company  with banks are in agreement with the books of account.
B.
Against pledging of the following to CCIL:  Government Securities including OMC GOI Special Bonds (Refer Note 4)  5,531.00  2,401.00  NOTE - 19: DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (NET) (Contd..) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 % (J in crore) % (J in crore) Share of profit of JVs/ Associates added net of tax in PBT of Group  0.023  12.89  2.475  372.22  Different or nil tax rates of Group Companies  (0.051)  (29.05)  (1.113)  (167.41) Effect of Taxes in foreign jurisdiction  0.389  222.70  1.718  258.31  Others  (0.022)  (12.50)  0.095  14.31  Average Effective Tax Rate/ Income Tax Expenses  24.660  14,126.64  22.167  3,333.43  (J in crore) Particulars Non Current Current March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Government Grants (Refer Note 43)  3,532.44  3,206.56  308.23  279.46  Statutory Liabilities  -  -  9,821.73  10,442.87  Advances from Customers  -  -  3,729.60  4,328.02  Others A  529.13  501.34  1,381.29  2,034.76  Total  4,061.57  3,707.90  15,240.85  17,085.11  A.
Includes  1.
Includes liability towards Fleet Customers  1,098.02  1,170.77   2.
Non-refundable Deposits from Dealers pending  amortisation  527.17  498.40  51.98  44.74  NOTE - 20: OTHER LIABILITIES (NON FINANCIAL) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 370 371  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises  1,423.70  1,024.97  Dues to Related Parties  1,292.73  1,203.79  Dues to Others  56,737.67  52,505.37  Total  59,454.10  54,734.13  NOTE - 22: TRADE PAYABLES (At amortised cost) Ageing of Trade Payables (J in crore) Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due  date of payment TotalLess than 6  months 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 3  years Current Year i) MSME*  452.50  310.79  660.22  0.03  -  -  1,423.54  ii) Others  3,500.98  43,651.02  9,583.56  406.57  15.55  35.95  57,193.63  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  0.01  0.16  -  -  -  -  0.17  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  286.34  321.91  25.95  4.99  52.15  145.42  836.76  Total  4,239.83  44,283.88  10,269.73  411.59  67.70  181.37  59,454.10  Previous Year i) MSME*  323.80  325.64  375.03  0.05  -  -  1,024.52  ii) Others  2,445.97  45,840.12  4,739.57  42.47  9.32  26.68  53,104.13  iii) Disputed Dues – MSME*  0.13  0.31  -  -  -  -  0.44  iv) Disputed Dues – Others  274.55  92.25  26.80  52.17  21.39  137.88  605.04  Total  3,044.45  46,258.32  5,141.40  94.69  30.71  164.56  54,734.13  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Sale of Power and Water  484.90  481.57  Revenue from Construction Contracts  13.99  4.06  Unclaimed / Unspent liabilities written back  329.35  83.91  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims, and Stores written back  3.11  13.71  Provision for Contingencies written back  48.13  50.80  Recoveries from Employees  0.33  1.67  Operating Licence Fees  1,318.51  1,402.95  Income from Non Fuel Business  375.18  302.38  Commission and Discount Received  0.69  1.25  Sale of Scrap  350.17  380.30  Income from Finance Leases  0.25  0.10  Amortization of Capital Grants  31.85  27.89  Revenue Grants  288.49  271.13  Terminalling Charges  47.90  52.82  Other Miscellaneous Income  991.41  916.48  Total  4,284.26  3,991.02  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Interest on:              A Financial items:  Deposits with Banks  201.13  99.41   Customers Outstandings  410.37  862.24   Oil Companies GOI SPL Bonds/ Other Investment  989.59  1,092.13   Other Financial Items  333.60  324.63  Total interest on Financial items  1,934.69  2,378.41  Non-Financial items  111.40  165.93   2,046.09  2,544.34  Dividend               B  1,198.16  1,623.12  Profit on sale and disposal of Assets  33.29  -  Exchange Fluctuations (Net)  4.29  62.78  Gain on Derivatives  84.09  -  Fair value Gain on Financial instruments classified as FVTPL  92.37  1.81  Gain on Remeasurement of PMUY Assets  336.61  -  Other Non Operating Income  47.95  29.65  Total  3,842.85  4,261.70  A 1.Includes Tax Deducted at Source  22.56  78.47  A 2.Includes interest received under section 244A of the Income Tax Act.
79.16  137.59  A 3.Include interest on:   Current Investments  968.02  724.22    Non-Current Investments  21.57  367.91  A 4.Total interest income (calculated using the effective interest method) for financial assets:   In relation to Financial assets classified at amortised cost  945.10  1,286.28    In relation to Financial assets classified at FVOCI  989.59  1,092.13  B Dividend Income consists of Dividend on:   Non-Current Investments  1,195.03  1,623.12  Particulars relating to Revenue Grants are given in Note - 43.
NOTE - 24: OTHER INCOME NOTE - 23.1: OTHER OPERATING REVENUES (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Sale of Products and Crude (Net of Discounts)  8,76,654.76  9,36,097.86  Sale of Services  196.83  315.49  Other Operating Revenues (Note "23.1")  4,284.26  3,991.02   8,81,135.85  9,40,404.37  Subsidy From Central/State Government  99.60  204.57  Grant from Government of India  -  10,801.00  Total  8,81,235.45  9,51,409.94  NOTE - 23: REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS Note: The MoPNG, vide letter dated 30.04.2020 had conveyed to Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) that where Market Determined  Price (MDP) of LPG cylinders is less than its Effective Cost to Customer (ECC), the OMCs will retain the difference in a separate buffer  account for future adjustment.
However, as on March 31, 2024, the Parent company had a cumulative negative buffer of H 1,017 crore  (2023: H 2,220 crore) as the retail selling price was less than MDP .
This amount is after adjustment of one-time grant of H 10,801 crore  provided by Government of India in FY 2022-23 against under-recoveries on sale of Domestic LPG during FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23  and cumulative uncompensated cost of H 4,796 crore (2023: 4,166 crore).
*Micro and Small Enterprises in line with Note -22: Trade Payables Note: Generally, undisputed Trade Payables are settled on or before the due dates and amount outstanding beyond due dates are on account of pending compliance  of Contractual/ Statutory requirement by Vendors.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 372 373  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Opening Stock  46,365.80  44,118.45  Add: Purchases  4,47,263.74  5,06,004.63   4,93,629.54  5,50,123.08  Less: Closing Stock  47,378.15  46,365.80  Total  4,46,251.39  5,03,757.28  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Closing Stock Finished Products  44,818.83  42,959.25  Work-In-Progress  10,993.86  10,846.81  Stock- in - trade  11,278.38  14,516.26   67,091.07  68,322.32  Less: Opening Stock Finished Products  42,959.35  40,285.95  Work-In-Progress  10,846.81  10,728.63  Stock - in - Trade  14,516.25  10,978.03   68,322.41  61,992.61  Net Increase / (Decrease)  (1,231.34)  6,329.71  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Salaries, Wages, Bonus etc  8,829.08  6,950.08  Contribution to Provident & Other Funds  1,316.51  962.14  Voluntary Retirement Compensation  2.02  1.54  Staff Welfare Expenses  1,523.33  1,445.38  Total  11,670.94  9,359.14  NOTE - 25: COST OF MATERIALS CONSUMED NOTE - 26: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED GOODS, STOCK-IN-TRADE AND WORK-IN-PROGRESS NOTE - 27: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE A.
Excludes H 430.77 crore (2023: H 445.26 crore) included in capital work in progress (construction period expenses - Note-2.2) /  intangible assets under development (Note - 3.1) and H 21.79 crore (2023: H 12.26 crore) included in CSR expenses (Note - 29.1).
B.
Disclosure in compliance with Indian Accounting Standard-19 on "Employee Benefits" is given in Note - 36.
NOTE - 28: FINANCE COSTS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Interest Payments on Financial items: Bank Borrowings  4,177.20  2,994.65  Bonds/Debentures  1,627.49  1,632.52  Lease Obligations  863.14  819.86  Unwinding of Discount  171.45  142.51  Other financial items  189.32  541.44   7,028.60  6,130.98  Interest Payments on Non Financial items: Unwinding of Discount  18.65  21.80  Others          A  536.57  494.42   555.22  516.22   7,583.82  6,647.20  Other Borrowing Cost      B  14.83  22.36  Applicable Net (Gain) / Loss on Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation  227.00  871.80  Total  7,825.65  7,541.36  A.
Mainly includes Interest on Kandla Port Trust Rental Liability 167.12 285.07 B.
Mainly pertains to franking charges, service charges & other indirect expenses on  borrowings.
Total interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method) for financial  liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss  7,028.60  6,130.98  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Consumption: a) Stores, Spares and Consumables  2,941.18  2,508.96  b) Packages & Drum Sheets  574.84  565.27   3,516.02  3,074.23  Power & Fuel  37,728.92  39,792.46  Less : Fuel from own production  29,100.85  31,910.28   8,628.07  7,882.18  Throughput, Processing & Blending Fees, Royalty and Other Charges  1,564.25  1,410.59  Octroi, Other Levies and Irrecoverable taxes  2,828.10  2,974.34  Repairs and Maintenance  i) Plant & Equipment  5,039.26  4,682.95   ii) Buildings  427.84  426.06   iii) Others  762.81  703.74   6,229.91  5,812.75  Freight, Transportation Charges and Demurrage  16,870.37  16,168.31  Office Administration, Selling and Other Expenses (Note "29.1")  11,701.55  17,658.28  Total  51,338.27  54,980.68  Less: Company's use of own Products and Crude  1,321.76  1,765.52  Total (Net)  50,016.51  53,215.16  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Rent  835.31  1,034.74  Insurance  467.13  418.15  Rates & Taxes  280.44  286.07  Donation  -  27.31  Payment to auditors  As Auditors  5.30  4.99   For Taxation Matters  -  0.58   Other Services(for issuing other certificates etc.)
1.97  1.94   For reimbursement of expenses  0.45  0.26   7.72  7.77  Travelling & Conveyance  834.31  888.37  Communication Expenses  82.01  71.28  Printing & Stationery  45.89  47.41  Electricity & Water  470.37  450.00  Bank Charges  54.98  46.49  Advances, Claims, CWIP , etc.
written off  1.35  11.19  Provision/ Loss on Assets sold or written off (Net)  -  66.12  Technical Assistance Fees  115.92  101.62  Exchange Fluctuation (net)  1,259.25  7,224.57  Provision for Doubtful Advances, Claims, CWIP , Stores etc.
150.96  60.61  Security Force Expenses  1,089.63  995.53  Sales Promotion and Publicity  1,444.26  1,228.56  Handling Expenses  902.64  766.41  Terminalling Charges  10.07  12.62  Provision for Probable Contingencies  9.30  217.06  Exploration & Production Cost  1,934.98  1,828.81  Loss on Derivatives  -  357.76  Expenses on Construction Contracts  10.77  3.69  Expenses on CSR Activities  464.44  355.86  Training Expenses  121.81  112.79  Legal Expenses / Payment To Consultants  251.39  204.05  Notices and Announcement  20.61  13.32  Pollution Control Expenses  110.64  108.41  Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets  30.26  69.04  Miscellaneous Expenses  695.11  642.67  Total  11,701.55  17,658.28  NOTE - 29: OTHER EXPENSES NOTE - 29.1: OFFICE,ADMINISTRATION,SELLING AND OTHER EXPENSES Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 374 375  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 30: OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (43.30)  (111.47) Fair value of Equity Instruments  14,535.48  (1,433.94) Share of Joint Ventures and associates in Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  1.94  1.39   14,494.12  (1,544.02) Income Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  10.78  28.29  Fair value of Equity Instruments  (982.09)  (42.64) Share of Joint Ventures and associates in Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Plans  (0.54)  (0.09)  (971.85)  (14.44) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  (15.25)  (464.12) Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  (182.34)  148.80  Translation Reserve on Consolidation  (458.54)  1,531.04  Share of Joint Ventures and associates in Translation Reserve on Consolidation  73.74  (16.13)  (582.39)  1,199.59  Income Tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Fair value of Debt Instruments  22.23  107.96  Gain/(Loss) on Hedging Instruments  45.89  (37.45)  68.12  70.51  Total  13,008.00  (288.36) Name Principal Activities Principal Place  of Business Equity Interest March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Chennai Petroleum Corporation  Limited Refining of petroleum products India 51.89% 51.89% IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited Terminalling, Retailing & Aviation refuelling Mauritius 100.00% 100.00% Lanka IOC PLC Retailing, Terminalling & Bunkering Sri Lanka 75.12% 75.12% IOC Middle East FZE Lube blending & marketing of lubricants UAE 100.00% 100.00% IOC Sweden AB Investment company for E&P Project in  Venezuela & Israel Sweden 100.00% 100.00% IOCL (USA) Inc.
Participation in Shale Gas Asset Project USA 100.00% 100.00% IndOil Global B.V. Investment company for E&P Project in Canada Netherlands 100.00% 100.00% IOCL Singapore PTE Limited Investment company for E&P Project in Russia,  Oman & Abu Dhabi Singapore 100.00% 100.00% IOC Global Capital  Management IFSC Limited Financial Services India 100.00%  -  NOTE–31: DISTRIBUTIONS MADE AND PROPOSED (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Cash Dividends on Equity Shares declared: Final Dividend Final Dividend during the current year for previous financial year: H 3.00 per share  (2023: H 2.40 per share)  4,131.47  3,305.17    Interim Dividend  Total Interim Dividend for current financial year: H 5.00 per share (2023: Nil per share)  6,885.78  -  Total 11,017.25 3,305.17 Proposed Dividend on Equity Shares Final proposed Dividend for current financial year: H 7.00 per share (2023: H  3.00 per share)  9,640.09  4,131.47  Notes   1.
349677684 (2023: 349677684) Equity Shares held under IOC Shares Trust (Shareholder) of face value H 349.68 crore   (2023: H 349.68 crore) have been netted off from paid up capital.
IOC Shares Trust have waived its right to receive the Dividend  w.e.f.
March 02, 2020 and therefore Dividend on shares held by IOC Shares Trust was neither proposed in the last year nor during  the current financial year.
2.
The Parent Company has also incurred expenses on distribution of final dividend amounting to H 0.11 crore (2023: H 0.19 crore) and  on distribution of interim dividend amounting to H 0.26 crore (2023: Nil) which have been debited to equity.
NOTE – 33A: GROUP INFORMATION AND MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES Information about subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements of the Group includes subsidiaries listed in the table below: Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Profit/ (loss) attributable to Equity holders (H in crore)  41,729.69  9,792.12  Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share (Basic) 13771560699 13771560699 Weighted Average number of Equity Shares used for computing Earning Per Share (Diluted) 13771560699 13771560699 Earnings Per Share (Basic) (H)  30.30  7.11  Earnings Per Share (Diluted) (H)  30.30  7.11  Face value per share (H )  10.00  10.00  Notes 1.
349677684 (2023: 349677684) Equity Shares held under IOC Share Trust of face value H 349.68 crore (2023: H 349.68 crore) have  been excluded from weighted average number of Equity Shares and EPS is computed accordingly.
NOTE–32: EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the  weighted average number of Equity Shares outstanding during the year.
(The following reflects the profit/ (loss) and number of shares used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:) Particulars Principal Place of Business March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited India 48.11% 48.11% Lanka IOC PLC Sri Lanka 24.88% 24.88% The Holding Company  51.5% of total shares are held by President of India as at March 31,2024 (March 31, 2023: 51.5%)  Material Subsidiaries  Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: 1.
Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 376 377  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 33A: GROUP INFORMATION AND MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES (Contd..) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest:  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  4,243.74  3,115.16   Lanka IOC PLC  502.96  378.94  Profit/(Loss) allocated to material non-controlling interest:  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  1,320.65  1,699.02   Lanka IOC PLC  110.80  213.12  2.
Information regarding non-controlling interest: The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries are provided below.
This information is based on amounts before inter- company eliminations.
1.
Summarised Balance Sheet: (J in crore) Particulars Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited Lanka IOC PLC March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Current assets  10,088.16  7,668.12  2,516.18  1,824.32  Current liabilities  7,307.61  6,583.06  783.70  512.42  Non-current assets  8,243.11  8,367.99  291.97  226.38  Non-current liabilities  2,202.74  2,977.97  2.89  15.24  Net assets  8,820.92  6,475.08  2,021.56  1,523.04  Accumulated Non-Controlling Interests  4,243.74  3,115.16  502.96  378.94  (J in crore) Particulars Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited Lanka IOC PLC 2023-2024 2022-2023 2023-2024 2022-2023 Revenue From Operations  79,272.54  90,908.27  6,887.44  6,409.27  Other Income  10.47  7.19  134.61  135.83  Cost of Material Consumed  60,402.61  67,188.78  -  -  Excise Duty  12,886.81  14,173.57  -  -  Purchases of Stock in trade  481.77  375.89  5,950.80  5,418.61  Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade  and work in progress  (831.68)  978.65  225.98  (244.16) Employee Benefits Expense  546.71  556.30  35.28  23.42  Finance Costs  223.28  330.18  15.19  124.08  Depreciation and amortization expense  605.63  573.46  11.18  10.33  Impairment Losses  -  -  2.80  0.47  Other Expenses  1,310.72  1,937.87  254.31  195.90  Profit before exceptional items and tax  3,657.16  4,800.76  526.51  1,016.45  Share of Profit of Joint Ventures/Associates  36.53  5.66  -  -  Profit/(Loss) before tax  3,693.69  4,806.42  526.51  1,016.45  Tax expense  948.62  1,274.89  81.14  159.85  Profit/ (Loss) for the period  2,745.07  3,531.53  445.37  856.60  Other Comprehensive Income  2.83  (13.40)  109.63  71.48  Total comprehensive income  2,747.90  3,518.13  555.00  928.08  Profit Attributable to Non-Controlling Interests  1,320.65  1,699.02  110.80  213.12  Dividends paid to Non-Controlling Interests  193.43  14.33  14.06  6.52  2.
Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss: NOTE – 33A: GROUP INFORMATION AND MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars Chennai Petroleum  Corporation Limited Lanka IOC PLC 2023-2024 2022-2023 2023-2024 2022-2023 Operating Activities  2,694.25  5,748.95  567.44  595.56  Investing Activities  (589.20)  (402.51)  (501.99)  (3.02) Financing Activities  (2,106.11)  (5,353.55)  (57.96)  (513.64) Currency Translation Difference  -  16.17  5.81  Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents  (1.06)  (7.10)  23.66  84.71  NOTE - 33B: INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE & ASSOCIATES 3.
Summarised Cash Flow Information: Name of entity Principal place of  business Equity Interest March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Joint Ventures IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited India 50.00% 49.38% Lubrizol India Private Limited India 26.00% 26.00% Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Green Gas Limited India 49.99% 49.98% Indian Oil Skytanking Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Nigeria 25.00% 25.00% Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited India 37.00% 37.00% Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP@ India 50.00% 50.00% NPCIL - IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited India 26.00% 26.00% GSPL India Transco Limited India 26.00% 26.00% GSPL India Gasnet Limited India 26.00% 26.00% IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited India 25.00% 25.00% Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IndianOil LNG Private Limited India 45.00% 45.00% Petronet CI Limited @@ India 26.00% 26.00% Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited# India 29.67% 29.67% Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited India 20.00% 20.00% IHB Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IndianOil Total Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% IOC Phinergy Private Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Paradeep Plastic Park Limited India 49.00% 49.00% Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited## India 25.00% 25.00% IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited### India 50.00% - GH4India Private Limited#### India 33.33% - Associates Avi-Oil India Private Limited India 25.00% 25.00% Petronet VK Limited India 50.00% 50.00% Petronet LNG Limited India 12.50% 12.50% Petronet India Limited@@@ India 18.00% 18.00% A.
Details of Interest in Joint Ventures & Associates is as under: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 378 379  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  @IndianOil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the  other JV partner viz.
Ruchi Soya Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will exit  the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time  frame for completing exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with ROC was  within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but the same is still pending and IndianOil’s name is appearing on  ROC website as Partner in the said LLP .
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process  and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited.
All necessary documents have been provided to M/s Ruchi for completing  formalities relating to exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP .
@@ Petronet CI Ltd. is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is  pending with Official Liquidator since 2006.
@@@ Petronet India Limited is a JV amongst  Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under  winding up and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator since 2018.
# The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 23.11.2022 has accorded in-principle approval for disinvestment of Hindustan  Urvarak & Rasayan Limited.
Further, MOP&NG vide letter dated 19th May, 2023 has accorded approval to IndianOil for disinvestment  from HURL in line with DIPAM’s OM dated 04.02.2021.
## Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (CBRPL) was incorporated on 6th January 2023 as a Joint Venture of Indian  Oil and Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited each holding 25% equity and balance by seed equity investors, for construction of  new 9 MMTPA refinery at Cauvery Basin Nagapattinam.
The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 28.03.2024 has accorded  in-principle approval for revision in capital structure of CBRPL with 75% equity from IndianOil and 25% equity from CPCL.
Upon  IndianOil acquiring the balance 50% equity shares, CBRPL would become a Subsidiary of IndianOil.
### IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited has been incorporated on 2nd June 2023 as a Joint Venture of Indian Oil and  NTPC Limited each holding 50% equity.
#### GH4India Private Limited has been incorporated on 25 th August 2023 as a Joint Venture of Indian Oil, Larsen & Toubro  Limited and ReNEW Power private Limited each holding 33.33% equity.
Note:   1.
The financials of Joint Operations as mentioned in Note 34 have been included in the financial statements of Indian Oil  Corporation Ltd & Subsidiary Companies and in respect of other Joint Ventures/Associates of Subsidiary Companies, the  same has been included in the financial statements of respective subsidiary company.
2.
Ujjwala Plus Foundation is a joint venture of IOCL, BPCL and HPCL with fund contribution in the ratio of 50:25:25 which was  incorporated as a company limited by guarantee (without share capital) under section 8 of Companies Act, 2013.
The Board  of IndianOil at its meeting held on 14.03.2023 has accorded in-principle approval for closure of Ujjwala Plus Foundation.
3.
The company has invested in Joint Ventures and Associates engaged in various business activities across hydrocarbon value  chain.
These include exploration, production, refining, transportation & marketing of petroleum products, petrochemicals,  lubes, gas distribution & marketing, alternate energy and the related business segments.
NOTE - 33B: INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE & ASSOCIATES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Current assets  892.44  811.32  Current liabilities  291.21  332.63  Non-current assets  590.63  633.26  Non-current liabilities  278.88  371.29  Net assets  912.98  740.66  Proportion of the Group’s ownership  456.49  370.33  Carrying amount of the investment  457.03  371.54  (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Revenue From Operations  1,582.11  1,609.60  Interest Income  25.85  13.55  Other Income  0.58  0.69  Revenue From Operations  1,608.54  1,623.84  Cost of Material/Service Consumed  974.67  1,044.76  Employee Benefits Expense  41.36  38.58  Finance Costs  31.21  29.46  Depreciation and amortization expense  53.77  51.45  Other Expenses  241.38  280.50  Profit/(Loss) Before tax  266.15  179.09  Tax expense: Current Tax  73.54  43.96  Deferred Tax  (5.80)  2.09  Profit/ (Loss) for the year  198.41  133.04  Other Comprehensive Income  0.65  (0.77) Total comprehensive income  199.06  132.27  Group's Share in above: Profit/ (Loss) for the period  99.20  66.52  Other Comprehensive Income  0.33  (0.39) Total comprehensive income  99.53  66.13  Dividend received  13.37  13.37  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Current assets  1,319.26  1,044.00  Current liabilities  326.61  201.19  Non-current assets  927.14  902.32  Non-current liabilities  221.79  217.29  Net assets  1,698.00  1,527.83  Proportion of the Group’s ownership  849.00  763.92  Carrying amount of the investment  776.63  691.53  Cash and cash equivalents  54.59  349.30  Current Financial Liabilities  263.76  311.21  Non-current financial liabilities  199.99  286.79  B. Summarised Financials of Material Associate / Joint Venture:  I.A.
Summarised Balance Sheet of Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited:  The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the followings  I.B.
Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss of M/s Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited:  II.A.
Summarised Balance Sheet of M/s Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 380 381  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Revenue From Operations  3,268.02  3,354.56  Interest Income  63.33  40.00  Other Income  31.42  0.57  Revenue From Operations  3,362.77  3,395.14  Cost of Material/Service Consumed  2,608.79  2,723.17  Employee Benefits Expense  21.50  21.57  Finance Costs  17.29  16.71  Depreciation and amortization expense  52.94  75.93  Other Expenses  225.19  222.30  Profit/(Loss) Before tax  437.06  335.46  Tax expense: Current Tax  111.93  84.47  Deferred Tax  (0.91)  1.75  Profit/ (Loss) for the year  326.04  249.24  Other Comprehensive Income -  (0.21) Total comprehensive income  326.04  249.03  Group's Share in above: Profit/ (Loss) for the period  163.02  124.62  Other Comprehensive Income  -    (0.10) Total comprehensive income  163.02  124.52  Dividend received  80.40  40.20  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Carrying Amount of Investments Joint Ventures  11,602.02  10,758.93  Associates  2,181.40  1,930.80  Aggregate amounts of the group’s share of other Joint Ventures: Share of Profits After Tax  75.18  67.89  Other comprehensive income  73.78  (13.69) Total comprehensive income  148.96  54.20  Aggregate amounts of the group’s share of other Associates: Share of Profits After Tax  438.20  419.77  Other comprehensive income  1.03  (0.55) Total comprehensive income  439.23  419.22  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Capital Commitments  3,835.98  3,323.36  Contingent Liabilities  312.58  1,071.41  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Cash and cash equivalents  139.57  35.95  Current Financial Liabilities  185.41  89.46  Non-current financial liabilities  143.65  137.48   The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the followings  II.B.
Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss of M/s Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited: C. Details in respect of other Joint Venture & Associates: D. Group’s share in Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in respect of Joint Venture & Associates is as under: (J in crore) Name Principal place of  business Proportion of Ownership Interest March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 E&P Blocks 1) AA-ONN-2001/2 A India 20.00% 20.00% 2) GK-OSN-2009/1 B India 25.00% 25.00% 3) AAP-ON-94/1 India 29.03% 29.03% 4) AA/ONDSF/UMATARA/2018 India 90.00% 90.00% 5) BK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 6) NK-CBM-2001/1 India 20.00% 20.00% 7) FARSI BLOCK IRAN C Iran 40.00% 40.00% 8) SHAKTHI GABON Gabon 50.00% 50.00% 9) AREA 95-96 Libya 25.00% 25.00% 10) RJ-ONHP-2017/8 D India 30.00% 30.00% 11) AA-ONHP-2017/12 India 20.00% 20.00% 12) MB/OSDSF/WO5/2021 India 30.00% 30.00% 13) KG/OSDSF/CHANDRIKA/2021 India 30.00% 30.00% 14) AA-ONHP-2018/3 E India 30.00%  -  15) AA-ONHP-2018/5 India 30.00%  -  16) RJ-ONHP-2018/2 India 30.00%  -  17) RJ-ONHP-2019/2 India 30.00%  -  18) RJ-ONHP-2019/3 India 30.00%  -  19) North Montney Joint Venture Canada 10.00% 10.00% 20) Niobrara Shale Project USA 10.00% 10.00% 21) Mukhaizna Oil Field Oman 17.00% 17.00% Others 22) INDOIL Netherlands B.V. F Netherlands 50.00% 50.00% NOTE–34: INTEREST IN JOINT OPERATIONS A.
The Group’s interest in Joint Operations are as under:  A.
Exploration Licence expired on October 7, 2015.
Consortium has requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  Appraisal phase, however vide letter dated March 6, 2019, it was opined to carry out Exploration activity instead of Appraisal  work.
Accordingly, Operator requested DGH for extension of exploration period.
Response from DGH is awaited.
B.
Appraisal period has expired on February 1,2022.
Consortium had requested Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for  extension.
Response from DGH is awaited.
C. The project’s exploration phase under Exploration Service Contract ended on June 24, 2009.
National Iranian Oil Company  (NIOC) has signed a Development Service Contract (DSC) for Farzad-B gas field (Farsi field) development with a local Iranian  Company.
The Company along with other Indian Consortium partners are engaged in negotiations/discussions with NIOC  for appropriate participation in the DSC.
D. The block is under relinquishment.
E. Blocks farmed-in from Oil India Ltd.        F. IOC Sweden AB through its JV INDOIL Netherlands B.V has invested in Petrocarabobo project, the outcome of this investment  may get delayed due to the political and economic situation in Venezuela.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 382 383  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–34: INTEREST IN JOINT OPERATIONS (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Assets  10,619.61  9,677.40  PPE ( including Producing Properties)  7,319.48  6,495.65  Capital Work in Progress  493.57  395.02  Intangible Asset under Development (Net of Provisions)  1,957.31  2,021.23  Other Assets (Net of Provisions)  849.25  765.50  Liabilities & Provisions  6,448.45  5,469.78  Liabilities  5,938.81  4,968.45  Provisions  509.64  501.33  Income  3,240.43  3,460.34  Sale of Products (Net of Own Consumption)  3,236.31  3,457.19  Other Income  4.12  3.15  Expenditure  3,199.74  2,976.24  Expenditure written off (incl exploration related)  -  2.14  Other Costs (incl exploration related)  3,199.74  2,974.10  Net Results  40.69  484.10  Commitments  2,515.82  2,432.02  Contingent Liabilities  12.16  -  (J in crore) Name March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 (i) Assets  288.29  220.76  - Intangible Assets under Development  273.34  217.58  - Capital Work in Progress  0.09  -  - Other Assets  14.86  3.18  (ii) Liabilities  147.76  128.46  - Provisions  4.26  12.48  - Other Liabilities  143.50  115.98  (iii)Income  0.51  -  (iv) Expenses  62.62  39.05  - Exploration expenditure written off  -  2.14  - Other exploration costs  62.62  36.91  (v) Cash Flow - Net Cash from/(used) in operating activities  (54.50)  2.73  - Net Cash from/(used) in investing activities  (72.48)  (7.91)  Note: Including financial position of relinquished blocks.
NOTE–35A: DISCLOSURE RELATING EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES In compliance of Ind-AS-106 on “Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources”, the disclosure of financial information relating to  activity associated with the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources (crude oil, natural gas etc.)
are as under: B.
The Group share of Financial position of Joint Operations are as under: NOTE–35B: IN COMPLIANCE OF REVISED GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING  ACTIVITIES, THE REQUIRED DISCLOSURES IN RESPECT OF RESERVES ARE AS UNDER: Net Proved Reserves of crude oil, condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas:  Assets March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million Cubic  Meter TMT Million Cubic  Meter A) Proved Reserves  Niobrara Shale Project, USA Beginning  236.56  76.70  125.21  39.67  Addition  -  -  117.03  39.46  Deduction  32.19  12.74  -  -  Production  22.15  7.88  5.68  2.43  Balance  182.22  56.07  236.56  76.70   Pacific Northwest LNG, Canada Beginning  1,904.45  14,793.66  1,641.38  12,629.16  Addition  33.64  951.16  368.89  2,877.47  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  111.62  841.26  105.82  712.97  Balance  1,826.47  14,903.56  1,904.45  14,793.66   Oman Beginning  5,362.52  -  5,332.96  -  Addition  396.36  -  793.97  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  680.79  -  764.41  -  Balance  5,078.09  -  5,362.52  -   Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Beginning  10.43  838.26  17.73  929.90  Addition  -  -  -  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  4.78  60.07  7.30  91.64  Balance  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved Reserves  7,092.43  15,737.82  7,513.96  15,708.62  B) Proved developed Reserves  Niobrara Shale Project, USA Beginning  64.52  24.91  59.64  23.75  Addition  55.86  13.76  10.56  3.59  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  22.15  7.88  5.68  2.43  Balance  98.23  30.79  64.52  24.91   Pacific Northwest LNG, Canada Beginning  602.20  4,806.05  516.52  3,911.89  Addition  182.86  1,639.90  191.51  1,607.13  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  111.62  841.26  105.83  712.97  Balance  673.44  5,604.69  602.20  4,806.05   Oman Beginning  4,575.39  -  4,476.55  -  Addition  381.64  -  863.25  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  680.79  -  764.41  -  Balance  4,276.24  -  4,575.39  -   Assam AAP-ON-94/1 Beginning  10.43  838.26  17.73  929.90  Addition  -  -  -  -  Deduction  -  -  -  -  Production  4.78  60.07  7.30  91.64  Balance  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved developed Reserves  5,053.56  6,413.67  5,252.54  5,669.22  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 384 385  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–35B: IN COMPLIANCE OF REVISED GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING  ACTIVITIES, THE REQUIRED DISCLOSURES IN RESPECT OF RESERVES ARE AS UNDER: (Contd..) Details March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas Crude Oil,  Condensate, NGLs Natural Gas TMT Million Cubic  Meter TMT Million Cubic  Meter A) Proved Reserves  U.S.  182.22  56.07  236.56  76.70   Canada  1,826.47  14,903.56  1,904.45  14,793.66   Oman  5,078.09  -  5,362.52  -   India  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved Reserves  7,092.43  15,737.82  7,513.96  15,708.62  B) Proved developed Reserves  U.S.  98.23  30.79  64.52  24.91   Canada  673.44  5,604.69  602.20  4,806.05   Oman  4,276.24  -  4,575.39  -   India  5.65  778.19  10.43  838.26   Total Proved developed Reserves  5,053.56  6,413.67  5,252.54  5,669.22  Net Proved Reserves & Proved developed Reserves of Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Gas on Geographical Basis: Frequency      The Group uses in house study as well as third party agency each year for reserves certification who adapt latest industry practices  for reserve evaluation.
For the purpose of estimation of Proved and Proved developed reserves, deterministic method is used by the  company.
The annual revision of estimates is based on the yearly exploratory and development activities and results thereof.
NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  Disclosures in compliance with Ind-AS 19 on “Employee Benefits” is as under:      A.
Defined Contribution Plans- General Description       Employee Pension Scheme (EPS-95)        During the year, the Group has recognised H 27.27 crore (2023: H 29.54 crore) as contribution to EPS-95 in the Statement of Profit  and Loss/ CWIP (included in Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses in Note-2.2) .
Pension Scheme        During the year, the Group has recognised H 442.28 crore (2023: H 463.06 crore) towards Defined Contributory Employees Pension  Scheme (including contribution in corporate National Pension Scheme) in the Statement of Profit and Loss/ CWIP (included in  Contribution to Provident and Other Funds in Note - 27/ Construction period expenses in Note-2.2).
B.
Defined Benefit Plans- General Description   Provident Fund:  The Group’s contribution to the Provident Fund are remitted to the separate provident fund trusts established for this purpose  based on a fixed percentage of the eligible employee’s salary and charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Shortfall of net  income of trust below Government specified minimum rate of return, if any, and loss to the trust due to its investments turning  stressed are being made good by the Group.
Gratuity:        Each employee rendering continuous service of 5 years or more is entitled to receive gratuity amount based on completed tenure  of service subject to maximum of H 0.20 crore at the time of separation from the group.
Besides, the ceiling of gratuity increases  by 25% whenever IDA rises by 50% with reference to January 01, 2017.
Post Retirement Medical Benefit Facility (PRMBF):        PRMBF provides medical coverage to retired employees and their eligible dependent family members.
Resettlement Benefit:        Resettlement benefit is allowed to employees to facilitate them to settle down upon retirement.
Ex gratia Scheme:  Ex-gratia is payable to those employees who have retired before January 01, 2007 and either not drawing pension from  superannuation benefit fund (as they superannuated prior to January 01, 1987, i.e.
introduction of superannuation benefit fund  scheme in IndianOil) or are drawing a pension lower than the ex gratia fixed for a Grade (in such case differential amount between  pension and ex gratia is paid).
Employees Compensation for injuries arising out of or during the course of employment:  Employees covered under the Employees’ Compensation Act, 1923 who meet with accidents, while on duty, are eligible for  compensation under the said Act.
Besides, a lumpsum monetary compensation equivalent to 100 months’ Pay (BP+DA) is paid  in the event of an employee suffering death or permanent total disablement due to an accident arising out of and in the course of  his employment.
Felicitation of Retired Employees:   The Parent Company has a scheme to felicitate retired employees on attaining different age milestones with a token  lumpsum amount.
C. Other Long-Term Employee Benefits - General Description  Leave Encashment:  Each employee is entitled to get 8 earned leaves for each completed quarter of service.
Encashment of earned leaves is allowed  during service leaving a minimum balance of 15 days subject to maximum accumulation of 300 days.
In addition, each employee  is entitled to get 5 sick leaves (in lieu of 10 Half Pay Leave) at the end of every six months.
The entire accumulation of sick leave  is permitted for encashment only at the time of retirement.
DPE had clarified earlier that sick leave cannot be encashed, though  Earned Leave (EL) and Half Pay Leave (HPL) could be considered for encashment on retirement subject to the overall limit of  300 days.
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoPNG) has advised the company to comply with the said DPE Guidelines.
However, in compliance to the DPE guidelines of 1987 which had allowed framing of own leave rules within broad parameters  laid down by the Government and keeping in view operational complications and service agreements the parent company had  requested concerned authorities to reconsider the matter.
Subsequently, based on the recommendation of the 3 rd Pay Revision  Committee, DPE in its guidelines on pay revision, effective from January 01, 2017 has inter-alia allowed CPSEs to frame their own  leave rules considering operational necessities and subject to conditions set therein.
The requisite conditions are fully met by the  parent company.
Long Service Award:        On completion of specified period of service with the Group and also at the time of retirement, employees are rewarded with  amounts based on the length of service completed.
It is a mode of recognizing long years of loyalty and faithful service in line  with Bureau of Public Enterprises (currently DPE) advice vide its DO No.
7(3)/79-BPE (GM.I) dated February 14, 1983.
On receipt  of communication from MoPNG advising us that the issue of Long Service Award has been made into an audit para in the Annual  Report of CAG of 2019, the Parent Company has been clarifying its position to MoPNG individually as well as on industry basis as  to how Long Service Awards are not in the nature of Bonus or Ex-gratia or honorarium and is emanating from a settlement with the  unions under the Industrial Dispute Act as well as with the approval of the Board in line with the DPE’s advice of 1983.
The matter  is being pursued with MoPNG for resolution.
Pending this the provision is in line with Board approved policy.
Leave Fare Allowance (LFA) / Leave Travel Concession (LTC):        L TC is allowed once in a period of two calendar years (viz.
two yearly block).
An employee has, in any given block period of two  years, an option of availing L TC or encashing the entitlements of LFA.
NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 386 387  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D. The summarised position of various Defined Benefit Plans recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss, Balance Sheet  and Other Comprehensive Income are as under:  (Figures given in Unbold & Italic Font in the table are for previous year)   (i) Reconciliation of balance of Defined Benefit Plans NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Defined Obligation at the  beginning of the year  19,741.15  2,723.44  7,917.28  113.08  258.19  470.85   18,699.86  2,811.77  7,299.79  118.90  255.36  467.25  Opening Balance Adjustment  6.19  -  -  -  -  -   (1.32)  -  -  -  -  -  Current Service Cost  670.03  54.79  315.43  15.34  -  1.61   536.82  58.09  291.97  16.86  -  1.73  Past Service Cost  -  -  -  -  3.79  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Interest Cost  1,603.13  204.19  596.17  8.47  19.26  35.46   1,535.20  205.46  540.18  8.69  17.77  34.58  Contribution by employees  1,006.85  -  -  -  -  -   1,036.46  -  -  -  -  -  Net Liability transferred In /  (Out)  192.68  -  -  -  -  -   222.17  -  -  -  -  -  Benefits paid  (2,640.00)  (292.81)  (331.46)  (7.51)  (40.92)  (22.46)  (2,418.03)  (302.51)  (309.02)  (8.69)  (35.73)  (17.54) Actuarial (gain)/ loss on  obligations  (133.50)  10.56  89.23  (15.27)  20.51  5.92   129.99  (49.37)  94.36  (22.68)  20.79  (15.17) Defined Benefit Obligation at  the end of the year  20,446.53  2,700.17  8,586.65  114.11  260.83  491.38   19,741.15  2,723.44  7,917.28  113.08  258.19  470.85  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at the  beginning of the year  19,908.73  2,817.21  7,728.12  -  -  -   18,992.42  2,822.14  7,201.68  -  -  -  Opening Balance Adjustment  -  -  -  -  -  -   (5.81)  -  -  -  -  -  Interest Income  1,602.60  211.26  581.93  -  -  -   1,534.84  206.22  532.92  -  -  -  Contribution by employer  670.03  0.82  557.27  -  -  -   536.82  70.13  252.50  -  -  -  Contribution by employees  1,006.85  -  1.10  -  -  -   1,036.46  -  1.18  -  -  -  Net Liability transferred In / (Out)  192.62  -  -  -  -  -   222.24  -  -  -  -  -  Benefit paid  (2,640.00)  (278.65)  (324.05)  -  -  -   (2,418.03)  (286.61)  (301.28)  -  -  -  Re-measurement (Return on plan  assets excluding Interest Income)  56.16  8.72  44.05  -  -  -   9.79  5.33  41.12  -  -  -  Fair value of plan assets at the end  of the year  20,796.99  2,759.36  8,588.42  -  -  -   19,908.73  2,817.21  7,728.12  -  -  -  (ii) Reconciliation of balance of Fair Value of Plan Assets (iii) Reconciliation of Fair Value of Plan Assets and Defined Benefit Obligation (iv) Amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss / Construction Period Expenses NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Fair Value of Plan Assets at the end of the year  20,796.99  2,759.36  8,588.42  -  -  -   19,908.73  2,817.21  7,728.12  -  -  -  Defined Benefit Obligation at the end of the  year (Net of Interest Shortfall)  20,446.53  2,700.17  8,586.65  114.11  260.83  491.38   19,741.15  2,723.44  7,917.28  113.08  258.19  470.85  Amount not recognised in the Balance  Sheet (as per para 64 of Ind-As 19)  352.73  -  -  -  -  -   302.76  -  -  -  -  -  Net Liability/ (Assets) recognised in the  Balance Sheet  2.27  (59.19)  (1.77)  114.11  260.83  491.38   135.18  (93.77)  189.16  113.08  258.19  470.85  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Current Service Cost  670.03  54.79  315.43  15.34  -  1.61   536.82  58.09  291.97  16.86  -  1.73  Past Service Cost  -  -  -  -  3.79  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Net Interest Cost  0.53  (7.07)  14.24  8.47  19.26  35.46  0.36  (0.76)  7.26  8.69  17.77  34.58  Contribution by Employees  -  -  (1.10)  -  -  -   -  -  (1.18)  -  -  -  Expected Contribution for NPA  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on obligations due to  Future Interest Shortfall  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Expenses for the year  670.56  47.72  328.57  23.81  23.05  37.07   537.18  57.33  298.05  25.55  17.77  36.31  (J in crore) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations  - Due to change in Demographic  assumptions  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations  - Due to change in Financial assumptions  (5.22)  59.15  119.73  4.67  2.31  41.53   1.71  (35.47)  (32.80)  (3.00)  (4.84)  19.29  Actuarial (gain)/ loss on Obligations   - Due to Experience  (9.58)  (48.59)  (30.50)  (19.94)  18.20  (35.61)  128.28  (13.90)  127.16  (19.68)  25.63  (34.46) Re-measurement (Return on plan assets  excluding Interest Income)  -  8.72  44.05  -  -  -   -  5.33  41.12  -  -  -  Amount recoverable from employee  adjusted in OCI  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  Net Loss / (Gain) recognized in OCI #  (14.80)  1.84  45.18  (15.27)  20.51  5.92   129.99  (54.70)  53.24  (22.68)  20.79  (15.17) (v) Amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)  # Net of Translation difference loss/ (gain) amounting to H (0.08) crore (2023: NIL) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 388 389  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Discount rate 7.21% 7.21% 7.24% 7.21% 7.21% 7.24% 7.49% 7.49% 7.53% 7.49% 7.46% 7.53% Salary escalation  - 8.00%  -  -  -  -   - 8.00%  -  -  -  -  Inflation  -  - 8.00% 6.00%  -  -   -  - 8.00% 6.00%  -  -  Average Expected Future Service/  Obligation (Years)  -  17  30  17  9  30   -  17  30  17  9  30  Mortality rate during employment  Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) Urban   Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-14) Urban  (J in crore) Loss/(Gain) for: Provident  Fund Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Change in Discounting Rate Increase by 1%  (2.28)  (207.84)  (409.68)  (15.39)  (9.17)  (71.82)  (6.96)  (256.48)  (364.41)  (14.59)  (9.10)  (67.02) Decrease by 1%  442.98  245.61  495.86  19.43  9.99  25.48   310.71  171.08  439.59  18.42  9.90  25.27  Change in Salary Escalation Increase by 1%  -  52.64  -  -  -  -   -  (9.87)  -  -  -  -  Decrease by 1%  -  (59.78)  -  -  -  -   -  (117.66)  -  -  -  -  Change in Inflation Rate Increase by 1%  -  -  1,049.31  -  -  -   -  -  962.31  -  -  -  Decrease by 1%  -  -  (860.10)  -  -  -   -  -  (788.46)  -  -  -  Provident Fund Gratuity PRMS Funded Funded Funded Investment with Insurer  - 99.62% 89.54%  - 99.62% 88.82% Self managed investments 100.00% 0.38% 10.46% 100.00% 0.38% 11.18% (vi) Major Actuarial Assumptions*  In case of funded schemes above, expected return on plan assets is same as that of respective discount rate.
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as  supply and demand factors in the employment market.
* Assumptions considered in actuarial valuation of defined benefit obligations of the Parent Company.
(vii) Sensitivity on Actuarial Assumptions: (viii) Investment details:  Details of the investment pattern for the above mentioned funded obligations are as under: NOTE – 36: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Contd..) Provident Fund Gratuity PRMS Funded Funded Funded Government Securities (Central & State) 52.37% 87.92% 18.07% 54.08% 85.56% 13.17% Investment in Equity / Mutual Funds 9.22% 0.97% 37.97% 7.50% 0.80% 30.42% Investment in Debentures / Securities 35.50% 10.86% 43.74% 36.77% 10.42% 56.39% Other approved investments (incl.
Cash) 2.91% 0.24% 0.23% 1.65% 3.21% 0.02%  * In case of Parent Company, pending receipt of investment pattern from LIC, pattern above pertains to self managed funds & funds managed by other insurers  and the actual investment pattern after considering the details from LIC shall vary.
(ix) The following payments are expected projections to the defined benefit plan in future years: (J in crore) Cash Flow Projection from the Fund/Employer Gratuity PRMS Resettlement  Allowance Ex-Gratia Felicitation Funded Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Non-Funded Within next 12 Months  299.75  335.46  7.10  50.26 27.94  327.30  305.58  8.01  49.21 25.32 Between 1 to 5 Years  985.71  1,461.03  21.27  150.48 120.61  966.45  1,327.73  22.96  149.83 117.52 Between 6 to 10 Years  1,030.27  2,082.67  28.94  100.44 176.17  1,087.02  1,885.89  30.92  102.90 172.01 NOTE–37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES A.
Leases     (a) As Lessee  The Group has entered into various material lease arrangements (including in substance lease arrangements) such as land and  buildings for the purpose of its plants, facilities, offices, retail outlet etc., storage tankages facility for storing petroleum products,  time charter arrangements for transportation of crude and petroleum products, transportation agreement for dedicated tank  trucks for road transportation of petroleum products, handling arrangement with CFA for providing dedicated storage facility and  handling lubes, supply of utilities like Hydrogen, Oxygen, Nitrogen and Water, way leave licences and port facilities among others.
There are no significant sale and lease back transactions and lease agreements entered by the Group do not contain any material  restrictions or covenants imposed by the lessor upto the current reporting period.
Details of significant leases entered by the Group (including in substance leases) are as under:  1.
Various arrangements on BOO/BOOT basis for Tankages facility, Water Intake facility, Quality Control Lab, Plants for supply  of utility gases at Refineries for periods ranging from 10–25 years.
In case of BOOT contracts, Lessor will transfer ownership  to IOCL at the end of contract period at Nil/Nominal value .
2.
Leasehold lands from government for the purpose of plants, facilities and offices for the period 30 to 90 years.
3.
Agreements with vessel owners for hiring of dedicated time charter vessels for transportation of Company's crude and  petroleum products, these are classified as Transport Equipment.
4.
Agreements with Tank truck operators for providing dedicated tank trucks for transportation of company’s petroleum products.
5.
Arrangement for lease of land/ dedicated storage tanks for operating Retail Outlets for sale of Petroleum products, setting up  terminals/Bottling plant/Lube Blending plant for storing petroleum products/bottling LPG/Manufacturing Lubes respectively.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 390 391  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..)  6.
CFA handling arrangement with CFAs for providing dedicated storage facility for handling lubes.
7.
Employee Township at Cauvery Basin Refinery of CPCL (Subsidiary) has been constructed on land area of thirty-four acres  and forty nine cents leased from a trust on five year renewable basis.
Amount Recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss or Carrying Amount of Another Asset (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Depreciation recognized  2,932.10  2,175.93  Interest on lease liabilities  878.60  831.99  Expenses relating to short-term leases (leases more  than 30 days but less than 12 months)*  953.41  1,366.65  Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets,  excluding short-term leases of Low-value assets  32.40  32.68  Variable lease payments not included in the  measurement of lease liabilities  10,140.92  10,355.04  Income from sub-leasing right-of-use assets -As Rental income from Operating Lease  19.04  25.31  -As Finance income from Finance Lease of RoU Asset  0.25  19.29  0.10  25.41  Total cash outflow for leases  4,914.46  4,275.11  Additions to ROU during the year  3,294.03  2,747.73  Gain or losses arising from sale and leaseback  transactions  -  -  Net Carrying Amount of ROU at the end the year  10,096.71  9,734.76  Others including Disputed, Leave & Licence, Reversal  of excess liability of previous year, exchange  fluctuation on lease liability etc.
324.99  666.05  (J in crore) Asset Class Net Carrying  value as at April  01, 2023 Additions to RoU  Asset during the  Year** Depreciation  Recognized  during the Year** Net Carrying  value as at March  31, 2024 Leasehold Land  4,225.25  461.98  345.31 4341.91 Buildings, Roads etc.
326.58  42.03  56.38 312.23 Plant & Equipment  3,420.54  95.35  304.07 3211.82 Transport Equipment  1,762.37  2,695.07  2,226.69 2230.75 Railway Sidings  0.01  -  0.01 - Total 9734.75 3294.43 2932.46 10096.71 (J in crore) Asset Class Items Added to  RoU Asset as on  April 01, 2022 Additions to RoU  Asset during the  Year** Depreciation  Recognized  during the Year** Net Carrying  value as at March  31, 2023 Leasehold Land  3,748.69  798.42  330.37 4216.74 Buildings, Roads etc.
341.77  20.36  37.77 324.36 Plant & Equipment  3,370.49  316.34  266.29 3420.54 Transport Equipment  1,700.15  1,614.67  1,541.72 1773.10 Railway Sidings  0.04  -  0.03 0.01 Total 9161.14 2749.79 2176.18 9734.75  *Includes Leases for which agreement are yet to be entered or due for renewal.
The details of ROU Asset included in PPE (Note 2) held as lessee by class of underlying asset are presented below :-  2023-2024  2022-2023  ** Additions to RoU Asset during the year is net of RoU Assets given on Sublease or modifications and cancellations during the year, if any.
**Includes H 0.40 crore (2023: H 2.07 crore) on account of FCTR difference in Additions and H 0.36 crore (2023: H 0.25 crore) under Depreciation.
As per requirement of the standard, maturity analysis of Lease Liabilities have been shown separately from the maturity analysis  of other financial liabilities under Liquidity Risk-Note 41: Financial Instruments & Risk Factors.
Details of items of future cash outflows which the Group is exposed as lessee but are not reflected in the measurement of lease  liabilities are as under;  (i) Variable Lease Payments   Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are to be included in the measurement of lease liability although  not paid at the commencement date.
As per general industry practice, the Group incurs various variable lease payments  which are not based on any index or rate (variable based on kms covered or % of sales etc..) and are recognized in profit or  loss and not included in the measurement of lease liability.
Details of some of the arrangements entered by the Group which  contain variable lease payments are as under:   1.
Transportation arrangement based on number of kms covered for dedicated tank trucks with different operators for  road transportation of petroleum, petrochemical and gas products.
2.
Leases of Land of Retail Outlets based on Sales volume.
3.
Rent for storage tanks for petroleum products on per day basis.
4.
Payment of VTS software and VSAT equipment based on performance of equipment.
5.
Payment of SD WAN equipment & software based on performance of equipment.
(ii) Extension and Termination Options   The Company lease arrangements includes extension options only to provide operational flexibility.
Company assesses  at every lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options and further reassesses  whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances  within its control.
However, where Company has the sole discretion to extend the contract such lease term is included for the  purpose of calculation of lease liabilities.
The Company has the sole discretion to terminate the lease in case of lease agreement for Retail Outlets.
However, Company  is reasonably certain not to exercise the option in view of significant improvement and prominent importance of Retail to the  entity's operations.
Accordingly, such lease term without any effect of termination is considered for the purpose of calculation  of lease liabilities.
(iii) Residual Value Guarantees       The Group have entered into various BOOT agreements wherein at the end of lease term the leased assets will be transferred  to the Group at Nominal value which has no significant impact on measurement of lease liabilities.
(iv) Committed leases which are yet to commence       1.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Hydrogen and Nitrogen gas to Barauni  Refinery for a period of 20 years.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction of the plant.
Lease will commence  once plant is commissioned.
2.
The Company has paid Advance Upfront Premium of H 13.42 crore to MSRDC for land for 6 Retail outlets at Aurangabad and  Nagpur for the period of 30 years.
Out of this the agreement is yet to be executed for 1 RO with upfront premium of H 4.33  crore and therefore the amount is lying as Capital Advance and shall form part of ROU Assets once lease is commenced.
3.
The Company has entered into lease agreement for sourcing e-locks from various vendors for a period of 3 years (with  an option to extend at the option of IOCL) at rate ranging from H 1200-1630/month.
As at March 31, 2024, a total of 1607  nos.
are yet to be supplied.
However, the same are low value items.
4.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with Andhra Pradesh State Civil Supplies for land for 1 Retail Outlet  at Vizag for a period of 20 years at an monthly rental of H 20,000/- with an increment of 10% in every 3 years.
The  possession of land is not given and the matter is pending in the court.
5.
The Company has entered into centralised lease agreement with M/s Trimble for rent payment of H 373/month for VTS  software for POL trucks customised to IOCL requirement for a period of 5 years.
As at March 31, 2024 a total of 2488  nos.
are yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
NOTE–37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 392 393  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   6.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with various vendors for VTS software of LPG trucks for a period of 5  years at a rental ranging from H 102-176/month.
As at March 31, 2024 a total of 890 nos.
of VTS are yet to be installed.
However, payment is in the nature of variable lease payment.
7.
The Company has entered into lease agreement with M/s Fox Solutions Pvt.
Ltd. for IoT software & equipment for  Swagat RO's for a period of 3 years at a rental of H 4,950/month.
As at March 31, 2024 a total of 23 nos.
of equipment  are yet to be installed.
However, the same are low value items.
8.
The Company has entered into lease agreement for Supply, Installation and Maintenance of Dual Network Connectivity  Solution (SD-WAN Solutions) with Managed Services on rental basis for ROs for a period of 5 years on OPEX Model with  monthly rental of H 2,113/-.
Out of selected RO's, commissioning is pending in 2091 RO's.
However, payment is in the  nature of variable lease payment.
9.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Hydrogen gas to Panipat Refinery (P-25  Project) for a period of 20 years from first supply.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the construction of the plant.
Lease  will commence once plant is commissioned.
10.
The Company has entered into lease agreement on BOO basis for supply of Instrument Air, Plant Air and Nitrogen  gas to Panipat Refinery (P-25 Project) for a period of 20 years from first supply.
IOCL has sub leased the land for the  construction of the plant.
Lease will commence once plant is commissioned.
11.
The Company has placed an order for tankages and would enter into lease agreement on BOOT basis for Tankages  facilities for Panipat Refinery (P-25 Project) for a period of 15 years from its commissioning.
IOCL will sub lease the land  for the construction of the plant.
Lease will commence once plant is commissioned.
(b) As Lessor   (i) Operating Lease    The lease rentals recognized as income in these statements as per the rentals stated in the respective agreements: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Lease rentals recognized as income during the year  284.75  121.24  - Variable Lease  166.29  41.48  - Others  118.46  79.76  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Less than one year  26.87  54.70  One to two years  15.74  47.19  Two to three years  3.33  18.94  Three to four years  1.79  2.20  Four to five years  0.75  0.41  More than five years  1.49  0.16  Total 49.97 123.60   These relate to Land/Buildings subleased for non fuel business, storage tankage facilities for petroleum products, Leave and  Licence model, machinery and office equipment given on lease.
Asset class wise details have been presented under Note 2:  Property, Plant and Equipment.
Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date  (ii) Finance Lease   The Group has entered into the following material finance lease arrangements:       (i) The Company has subleased Telematics Equipment to its Fleet Customers.
IOCL has classified the sub lease as a  finance lease, because the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
The same is derecognised  during the year upon discontinuation of sublease by Fleet Customers.
(ii) The Company has entered into sublease arrangement of Office Space to PCRA for a period of 3 years.
The same has  been classified as finance lease as the sub-lease is for the whole of the remaining term of the head lease.
The same is  derecognised during the year upon completion of lease term.
NOTE–37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..)   (iii) The Company has entered into a lease agreement with Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited in which the Company  has leased out land for one time upfront payment of H 16.65 crore.
(iv) The Company had subleased certain Office Premises to IHB Limited.
Lease income from lease contracts in which the Group acts as a lessor is as below:- NOTE–37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Selling Profit/(Loss)  -  (0.01) Finance income on the net investment in the lease  0.25  0.10  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Gross Investments in Finance Lease  20.89  24.95  Less: Unearned Finance Income  -  0.01  Less: Finance Income Received  0.29  0.47  Less: Minimum Lease payment received  20.35  23.54  Less: Adjustment during the year  0.25  0.19  Net Investment in Finance Lease as on Date  -  0.74  Opening Net Investment in Finance Lease  0.74  3.34  Add: New Leases added during the year  -  0.02  Less: PV of Minimum Lease payment received during the year  0.49  2.43  Less: Adjustments during the year  0.25  0.19  Closing Net Investment in Finance Lease -  0.74  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Less than one year  -  0.74  One to two years  -  0.01  Two to three year  -  -  Three to four years  -  -  Four to five years  -  - More than five years  -  -  Total Undiscounted Lease Payment  -  0.75  Less: Unearned finance Income  -  0.01  Net Investment in Finance Lease as on date  -  0.74    Maturity Analysis of Undiscounted Lease Payments to be received after the reporting date B.
Contingent Liabilities B.1 Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt  Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt amounting to H 9,055.38 crore (2023: H 9,688.87 crore) are as under:  B.1.1 H 699.05 crore (2023: H 649.23 crore) being the demands raised by the Central Excise /Customs/ Service Tax/GST Authorities  including interest of H 261.43 crore (2023: H 222.56 crore).
B.1.2 H 38.36 crore (2023: H 38.36 crore) in respect of demands for Entry Tax from State Governments including interest of H 8.62  crore (2023: H 8.62 crore).
B.1.3 H 814.82 crore (2023: H 1,296.74 crore) being the demands raised by the VAT/ Sales Tax Authorities including interest of  H 266.68 crore (2023: H 534.91 crore).
B.1.4 H 2595.55 crore (2023: H 2276.11 crore) in respect of Income Tax demands including interest of H 228 crore (2023:  H 127.82 crore).
B.1.5 H 4,741.73 crore (2023: H 5,060.27 crore) including H 4,030.08 crore (2023: H 4,122.62 crore) on account of Projects for which suits  have been filed in the Courts or cases are lying with Arbitrator.
This includes interest of H 195.64 crore (2023: H 221.51 crore).
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 394 395  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–37: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Contd..)  B.1.6 H 165.87 crore (2023: H 368.16 crore) in respect of other claims including interest of H 75.1 crore (2023: H 29.11 crore).
The Group has not considered those disputed demands/claims as contingent liabilities, for which, the outflow of resources has  been considered as remote.
The Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on  its financial position.
Contingent liabilities in respect of joint operations are disclosed in Note 34.
B.2 Guarantees excluding Financial Guarantees      B.2.1 The Group has issued Corporate Guarantee, on behalf of IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL), to the extent of  obligations of later company under Performance Bank Guarantee facility provided to IOAGPL by State Bank of India, Canara  Bank, Bank of Baroda, Indian Bank, IndusInd Bank, Jammu and Kashmir Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank.
The Company’s  share of such obligation is estimated at H 3,472.15 crore (2023: H 3,533.46 crore).
B.2.2 The Group has issued Parent Company Guarantee in favour of Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, on behalf of Urja Bharat  Pte.
Ltd., (a joint venture company of Company's subsidiary i.e.
IOCL Singapore Pte Ltd) to fulfil the joint venture Company's  future obligations of payment and performance of Minimum Work Programme.
The total amount sanctioned by the Board  of Directors is USD 89.7 Million.
The estimated amount of such obligation (net of amount paid) is H 144.30 crore - USD 17.30  million (2023: H 239.95 crore - USD 29.20 million).
B.2.3 The Group has entered into Signature Bonus Agreement with Republic of Venezuela payable on achievement of various  project timelines.
The estimated amount of such obligation is at H 472.37 crore (2023: H 467.51 crore).
B.3 Other money for which the Group is Contingently Liable      B.3.1 Pending decision of the Government, no liability could be determined and provided for in respect of additional compensation,  if any, payable to the land owners and the Government for certain lands acquired.
B.3.2 As on 31.03.2024 company has contingent liability of H 967.81 crore (2023: H 479.08 crore) towards custom duty for capital  goods imported under Manufacturing & Other operation in Warehouse Regulation (MOOWR) scheme against which company  has executed and utilised bond amounting to H 2,903.43 crore (2023: H 1,437.24 crore) which represents three times of the  custom duty.
The firm liability towards such custom duty shall be contingent upon conditions (Rate of custom duty/decision  of company to export, etc) at the time of filing of ex-bond bill of entry at the time of disposal.
In case the Company decides to  export such capital goods, the associated costs shall not be significant.
C. Commitments C.1 Capital Commitments  Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account and thus not provided for H 61,201.75 crore   (2023: H 74,728.35 crore) inclusive of taxes.
C.2 Other Commitments  The Group has an export obligation to the extent of H 219.05 crore (2023: H 219.05 crore) on account of concessional rate of duty  availed under EPCG licence scheme on procurement of capital goods and the same is expected to be fulfilled by way of exports.
Note – 38: Related Party Disclosures As required by Ind-AS -24 “Related Party Disclosures”, are given below : 1.
A) Details of Joint Ventures (JVs) / Associate Entities to IOCL & its Subsidiaries: JVs and Associates of IOCL 24) Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited 1)  IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited 25) Ujjwala Plus Foundation^^ 2)  Lubrizol India Private Limited 26) IHB Limited 3) Petronet VK Limited 27) IndianOil Total Private Limited  4) IndianOil Petronas Private Limited 28) IOC Phinergy Private Limited  5) Avi-Oil India Private Limited 29) Paradeep Plastic Park Limited  6) Petronet India Limited * 30) Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited@@ 7) Petronet LNG Limited 31) IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited   (Incorporated on 02.06.2023) 8) Green Gas Limited 32) GH4India Private Limited (Incorporated on 25.08.2023) 9) Petronet CI Limited @ 10) IndianOil LNG Private Limited JVs and Associates of IOCL 's Subsidiaries 11) IndianOil SkyTanking Private Limited 33) Indian Additives Limited 12) Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited 34) National Aromatics & Petrochemicals Corporation Limited 13) Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited 35) Taas India PTE Limited 14) Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited 36) Vankor India PTE Limited 15) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP # 37) Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminals Limited 16) NPCIL- IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited 38) Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. 17) GSPL India Transco Limited 39) Urja Bharat PTE Limited 18) GSPL India Gasnet Limited 40) Beximco IOC Petroleum and Energy Limited  19) IndianOil - Adani Gas Private Limited 41) INDOIL Netherlands B.V. 20) Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited 42) Bharat Energy Office LLC 21) Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited 43) Trinco Petroleum Terminal (Private) Limited  22) Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited$ 44) Mer Rouge Oil Storage Terminal Limited 23) Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited 45) I.O.M.L.
Hulas Lube Private Limited   (Incorporated on 08.11.2023) 1) IAV Engineering & Construction Services Limited  (formerly known as IOT Engineering & Construction  Services Limited) 10) IndianOil Skytanking Delhi Private Limited 2) Stewarts and Lloyds of India Limited  (dissolved in April 2023) 11) IAV Biogas Private Limited  (formerly known as IOT Biogas Private Limited) 3) IAV Infrastructures Private Limited 12) Petronet LNG Foundation (Limited by Guarantee) 4) IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited 13) Petronet Energy Limited  5) PT IOT EPC Indonesia (Stake sold w.e.f.
15.11.2023) 14) KazakhstanCaspishelf India Private Limited 6) IAV Engineering Projects Limited 15) Petronet LNG Singapore PTE.
Limited  7) JSC KazakhstanCaspishelf 16) IOSL Noida Private Limited  8) Indian Oiltanking Engineering & Construction   Services LLC Oman  17) IAV Utkarsh Limited (formerly known as IOT Utkarsh Limited) 9) IOT Vito Muhendislik Insaat Ve Taahut A.S. 18) IAV Urja Services Limited (Incorporated on 12.12.2023)  B) Details of Subsidiaries to JVs of IOCL:   * Petronet India Limited is a JV amongst  Indian Oil, BPCL, HPCL, RIL, NEL, IL&FS, SBI and ICICI.
The company is under winding up and the matter is  pending with Official Liquidator since 2018.
@ Petronet CI Ltd. is a JV amongst Indian Oil, PIL, RIL, NEL and BPCL.
The company is under winding up and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator since 2006.
# IndianOil has exited the Joint Venture, IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLP (M/s IORB) by giving notice of its exit from the LLP to the other JV partner viz.
Ruchi  Soya Industries Limited (M/s Ruchi) as well as to the LLP on December 26, 2018 stating that it will exit the LLP w.e.f.
January 25, 2019.
The time  frame  for completing exit formalities by M/s Ruchi by filing requisite forms with ROC was within 30 days of notice expiry period (i.e., by February 24, 2019) but  the same is still pending and IndianOil's name is appearing on ROC website as Partner in the said LLP .
It has been informed that M/s Ruchi was under  Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process and has been taken over by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited.
All necessary documents have been provided to M/s  Ruchi for completing formalities relating to exit of IndianOil from IORB LLP .
$ The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 23.11.2022 has accorded in-principle approval for disinvestment of Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan  Limited.
Further, MOP&NG vide letter dated 19 th May, 2023 has accorded approval to IndianOil for disinvestment from HURL in line with DIPAM's OM  dated 04.02.2021.
^^ The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 14.03.2023 has accorded in-principle approval for closure of Ujjwala Plus Foundation.
@@ The Board of IndianOil at its meeting held on 28.03.2024 has accorded in-principle approval for revision in capital structure of CBRPL with 75% equity  from IndianOil and 25% equity from CPCL.
Upon IndianOil acquiring the balance 50% equity shares, CBRPL would become a Subsidiary of IndianOil.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 396 397  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note – 38: Related Party Disclosures (Contd..)  C) The following transactions were carried out with Joint Ventures (JVs)/ Associates of IOCL & their subsidiaries, JVs of  Subsidiaries of IOCL and Subsidiaries of IOCL and their related parties in the ordinary course of business: (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 1 Sales of Products/Services  5,196.29  4,705.67  [Includes sales to IndianOil Petronas Private Limited H 2,615.22 crore (2023: H 2,751.39  crore), Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited H 1,514.26 crore (2023: H 496.90 crore)  and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited H 609.31 crore (2023: H 537.52 crore)] 2 Interest received  221.89  274.32  [Includes interest received from IndianOil LNG Private Limited H 219.18 crore  (2023: H 273.04 crore)] 3 Other Operating Revenue/Dividend/Other Income  496.00  2,116.05  [Includes Other Operating Revenue/Dividend/Other Income from Indian Synthetic  Rubber Private Limited H 140.40 crore (2023: H 163.85 crore), Vankor India PTE Limited  H 125.74 crore (2023: H 806.57 crore), Falcon Oil & Gas B V H 115.16 crore (2023:   H 214.09 crore) and Taas India PTE Limited H 55.48 crore (2023: H 862.07 crore)] 4 Purchase of Products  12,185.90  14,488.26  [Includes Purchase of Products from Petronet LNG Limited H 10,685.34 crore  (2023: H 12,312.45 crore)] 5 Purchase of Raw Materials/Others  7,818.71  8,301.35  [Includes Purchase of Raw Materials/Others from Petronet LNG Limited   H 4,417.16 crore (2023: H 5,487.55 crore) and Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. H 2,717.76 crore  (2023: H 2,229.70 crore)] 6 Interest paid  181.75  206.97  [Includes Interest paid to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited H 181.75 crore  (2023: H 206.97 crore)] 7 Expenses Paid/(Recovered) (Net)  870.00  1,308.71  [Includes Expenses Paid to/(Recovered) from IndianOil Petronas Private Limited   H 329.51 crore (2023: H 371.14 crore), IndianOil Sky Tanking Private Limited H 196.33  crore (2023: H 191.30 crore), IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited H 120.05 crore (2023:   H 117.64 crore), IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited H 91.41 crore (2023: H 76.78 crore),  Petronet LNG Limited H 0.01 crore (2023: H 227.08 crore) and IndianOil Adani Gas  Private Limited H 0.27 crore (2023: H 215.17 crore)] 8 Investments made/(sold) during the year (Incl.
Advance for Investment)  602.59  1,008.05  [Includes Investment made in Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited H 347.03  crore (2023: H 666.54 crore), GSPL India Gasnet Limited H 83.00 crore (2023:Nil ) and  Kochi Salem Pipelines Private Limited H 76.99 crore (2023: H 90.64 crore)] 9 Purchase/(Sale)/Acquisition of Fixed Assets (Incl.
CWIP/Leases)  -    1.01  [Includes Purchase/(Sale)/Acquisition/(Recovered) of Fixed Assets incl.
CWIP/ Leases from GSPL India Transco Limited- Nil (2023: H 0.95 crore)] 10 Provisions made/(write back) during the year  -    0.05  [Includes Provision made/(written back) in Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited- Nil   (2023: H 0.05 crore)] 11 Outstanding Receivables/Loans  2,219.50  2,178.47  [Includes Outstanding Receivables/Loans from IndianOil LNG Private Limited   H 1,056.21 crore (2023: H 1,056.12 crore) and Petronet LNG Limited H 226.63 crore  (2023: H 257.48 crore)] (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 12 Outstanding Payables (Incl.
Lease Obligation)  2,975.16  3,087.10  [Includes Outstanding payable to IOT Utkal Energy Services Limited H 1,683.84  crore (2023: H 1,913.89 crore) and Petronet LNG Limited H 1,009.93 crore   (2023: H 930.69 crore)] 13 Investments in JV/Associates as on date  19,345.58  19,970.55  14 Guarantees Financial Guarantees  132.00  165.86  [Includes Financial Guarantees given to Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited H 132.00  crore (2023: H 20.00 crore) and Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited- Nil   (2023: H 145.86 crore)] Note – 38: Related Party Disclosures (Contd..) Name of Government: Government of India (Central and State Government) Nature of Transactions: 	 Sale of Products and Services 	 Purchase of Products 	 Purchase of Raw Materials 	 Handling and Freight Charges, etc.
Note:   1) Transactions in excess of 10% of the total related party transactions for each type has been disclosed above.
2) In case of Joint Venture/ Subsidiary Companies constituted/acquired during the period, transactions w.e.f.
date of  constitution / acquisition is disclosed.
3) In case of Joint Venture / Subsidiary Companies which have been closed/divested during the period, transactions up to  the date of closure / disinvestment only are disclosed.
2.
Government related entities where significant transactions carried out  Apart from transactions reported above, the Group has transactions with other Government related entities, which includes but not  limited to the following:  These transactions are conducted in the ordinary course of the Group's business on terms comparable to those with other entities  that are not Government-related.
3) Key Managerial Personnel A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company Secretary/CFOB.
Independent Directors C. Government Nominee Directors 1) Shri S. M. Vaidya 1) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung 1) Shri Sunil Kumar 2) Shri V. Satish Kumar 2) Dr.(Prof.) Ashutosh Pant 3) Ms. Sukla Mistry  3) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker   4) Shri Sujoy Choudhury 4) Shri Prasenjit Biswas   5) Shri N. Senthil Kumar (w.e.f.
14.08.2023) 5) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray   6) Shri Anuj Jain (w.e.f.
09.10.2023) 6) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan   7) Shri Alok Sharma (w.e.f.
16.01.2024) 7) Dr. (Prof.) Ram Naresh Singh   8) Ms. Rashmi Govil (w.e.f.
15.03.2024) 8) Ms. Lata Usendi (Upto 05.11.2022) 9) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra (Upto 02.05.2023)  10) Dr. S. S. V. Ramakumar (Upto 31.07.2023)  11) Shri D.S.
Nanaware (Upto 30.06.2023)  12) Shri S K Gupta (Upto 03.10.2022) 13) Shri Sanjay Kaushal (Upto 09.10.2023)  14) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani    D) Details relating to the personnel referred to in Item No.
3A & 3B above:     March 31, 2024 (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting  Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company Secretary/CFO  1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.74  0.90  0.01  1.65  -    -     2) Shri V. Satish Kumar  0.71  0.08  0.11  0.90  -    -     3) Ms. Sukla Mistry   0.67  0.08  -    0.75  -    -     4) Shri Sujoy Choudhury  0.73  0.08  0.10  0.91  -    -    Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 398 399  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting  Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables  5) Shri N. Senthil Kumar  0.39  0.05  0.17  0.61  -    0.03   6) Shri Anuj Jain  0.22  0.04  -    0.26  -    0.19   7) Shri Alok Sharma  0.13  0.02  0.11  0.26  -    -     8) Ms. Rashmi Govil  0.03  0.01  -    0.04  -    0.08   9) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra  0.14  -    -    0.14  -    -     10) Dr. S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.29  0.72  0.11  1.12  -    -     11) Shri D.S.
Nanaware  0.50  0.80  0.11  1.41  -    -     12) Shri Sanjay Kaushal  0.41  0.04  0.01  0.46  -    -     13) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani   0.67  0.08  -    0.75  -    0.23  B.
Independent Directors  1) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  -    -    -    -    0.08  -     2) Dr.(Prof.) Ashutosh Pant  -    -    -    -    0.11  -     3) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker   -    -    -    -    0.11  -     4) Shri Prasenjit Biswas   -    -    -    -    0.14  -     5) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray   -    -    -    -    0.11  -     6) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan   -    -    -    -    0.10  -     7) Dr. (Prof.) Ram Naresh Singh   -    -    -    -    0.06  -     Total  5.63  2.90  0.73  9.26  0.71  0.53  Note – 38: Related Party Disclosures (Contd..) (J in crore) Key Managerial Personnel Short-Term  Employee  Benefits Post  Employment  Benefits Other  Long Term  Benefits Total  Remuneration Sitting  Fees  Outstanding  Loans (Gross)/  Advance  Receivables A.
Whole Time Directors/ Company Secretary/CFO  1) Shri S. M. Vaidya  0.76  0.09  0.09  0.94  -    0.01   2) Shri V. Satish Kumar  0.93  0.09  -    1.02  -    -     3) Ms. Sukla Mistry   0.72  0.09  0.09  0.90  -    -     4) Shri Sujoy Choudhury  0.73  0.09  0.10  0.92  -    -     5) Shri Ranjan Kumar Mohapatra  0.84  0.09  -    0.93  -    0.01   6) Dr. S. S. V. Ramakumar  0.75  0.09  0.10  0.94  -    -     7) Shri D.S.
Nanaware  0.60  0.09  0.09  0.78  -    -     8) Shri S K Gupta  0.49  0.05  0.18  0.72  -    -     9) Shri Sanjay Kaushal  0.29  0.04  -    0.33  -    -     10) Shri Kamal Kumar Gwalani   0.71  0.08  0.07  0.86  -    0.24  B.
Independent Directors  1) Shri Dilip Gogoi Lalung  -    -    -    -    0.06  -     2) Dr.(Prof.) Ashutosh Pant  -    -    -    -    0.09  -     3) Dr. Dattatreya Rao Sirpurker   -    -    -    -    0.09  -     4) Shri Prasenjit Biswas   -    -    -    -    0.08  -     5) Shri Sudipta Kumar Ray   -    -    -    -    0.09  -     6) Shri Krishnan Sadagopan   -    -    -    -    0.09  -     7) Dr. (Prof.) Ram Naresh Singh   -    -    -    -    0.04  -     8) Ms. Lata Usendi  -    -    -    -    0.07  -     Total  6.82  0.80  0.72  8.34  0.61  0.26    March 31, 2023   Notes :   1) This does not include the impact of provision made on actuarial valuation of retirement benefit/ long term Schemes and  provision made during the period towards Post Retirement Benefits as the same are not separately ascertainable for  individual directors.
2) There were no Share Based Employee Benefits given to KMPs during the period.
3) In addition, whole-time Directors are also allowed the use of Corporation's car for private purposes up to 12,000 kms.
per annum on a payment of ₹ 2,000/- per mensem.
4) Remuneration and Loan balances for KMP is reported for the period of tenure as KMP .
(J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Petroleum  Products Petro-  chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Petroleum  Products Petro- chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Revenue External Revenue  8,14,954.18  26,186.80  40,094.47  -    8,81,235.45  8,92,496.24  22,259.11  36,654.59  -    9,51,409.94  Inter-segment Revenue  18,515.49  46.89  68.89 (18,631.27) -  15,859.74  38.07  74.32  (15,972.13) - Total Revenue  8,33,469.67  26,233.69  40,163.36 (18,631.27)  8,81,235.45  9,08,355.98  22,297.18  36,728.91  (15,972.13)  9,51,409.94  Result Segment Results excluding  Exchange Gain/(Loss)  60,441.93  (351.49)  1,232.46  -    61,322.90  23,028.52  (241.23)  2,431.65  -    25,218.94  Segmental Exchange Gain/(Loss)  (893.44)  7.35  27.61  -    (858.48)  (4,589.36)  59.83  (0.57)  -    (4,530.10) Segment Results  59,548.49  (344.14)  1,260.07  -    60,464.42  18,439.16  (181.40)  2,431.08  -    20,688.84  Less: Unallocable Expenditure - Finance Cost  7,825.65  7,541.36  NOTE - 39: SEGMENT INFORMATION Operating Segment Reporting as per Ind-AS 108 for the period ended March 31, 2024 is as under:  4) Relatives of Key Managerial Personnel and nature of relation with whom transactions are undertaken during the year:  1) Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya (Assistant Manager (Production), Indian Oil Corporation Limited): Son of Key  Managerial Personnel  2) Shri Vinayak Shrikant Vaidya (Production Engineer, Indian Oil Corporation Limited): Son of Key Managerial Personnel  Details relating to the parties referred above: Note – 38: Related Party Disclosures (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 1 Remuneration ^ Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya  0.23  0.25  Shri Vinayak Shrikant Vaidya  0.16  0.04  2 Outstanding Receivables/ Loans ^ Shri Siddharth Shrikant Vaidya  0.11  -    Shri Vinayak Shrikant Vaidya  -    -     ^ Remuneration and Loan balances for relative of KMP is reported for the period of tenure of KMP .
5) Employee Benefit Trusts      Transactions with Post Employment Benefit Plans managed through separate trust: (J in crore) Particulars Post  Employment   Benefit Plan March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Contribution  by employer  Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable)  Contribution  by employer  Outstanding  Receivable/  (Payable)  1 IOCL (Refinery Division) Employees  Provident Fund Provident Fund  264.97  8.64  249.51  228.94  2 Indian Oil Corporation Limited (Assam Oil  Division) Employees Provident Fund Provident Fund  17.42  (0.23)  17.44  4.25  3 Provident Fund for the Employees of  Indian Oil Corporation Limited (Marketing  Division) Provident Fund  244.48  (1.43)  246.25  (1.73) 4 IOCL Employees Superannuation Benefit  Fund Pension  Scheme  108.75  2.25  127.71  34.58  5 IOCL Employees Post Retirement Medical  Benefit Fund Post Retirement   Medical  Scheme  546.37  (19.78)  252.50  (241.01) 6 IOCL Employees Group Gratuity Trust Gratuity  -    13.15  69.89  63.14  7 CPCL Employees Provident Fund Provident Fund  25.00  2.07  24.20  2.11  8 CPCL Employees Superannuation Benefit  Fund Pension  Scheme  10.25  -    6.47  -    Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 400 401  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 39: SEGMENT INFORMATION (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Petroleum  Products Petro-  chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total Petroleum  Products Petro- chemicals Other  Business Eliminations Total - Impairment Loss on  Financial Assets -  Pertaining to Investment  2.38  115.33  - Exchange Loss - (Net)  396.48  2,631.69  - Loss on Derivatives  -    357.76  - Other non operating  expenses  -    66.12  Add: Unallocable Income - Interest and Dividend  Income  3,244.25  4,167.46  - Gain on Derivatives  84.09  -    - Fair value gain on Financial  instruments classified as  FVTPL  92.37  1.81  - Other non operating  income  81.24  29.65  - Share of Profit in Joint  Venture and Associates  1,545.93  862.19  Profit Before Tax  57,287.79  15,037.69  Less: Income Tax   (including deferred tax)   14,126.64  3,333.43  Profit After Tax  43,161.15  11,704.26  1.
The Company is engaged in the following business segments:   a) Sale of Petroleum Products  b) Sale of Petrochemicals  c) Other operating segment of the Corporation comprises; Gas, Oil & Gas Exploration Activities, Explosives & Cryogenic Business  and Wind Mill & Solar Power Generation.
Segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the nature of products and services and differing risks and returns.
2.
Segment Revenue comprises of the following:  a) Turnover (Inclusive of Excise Duties)  b) Net Claim/(Surrender) of SSC  c) Subsidy / Grants received from Governments  d) Other Operating Revenue           3.
Inter segment pricing are at Arm’s length basis.
4.
There are no reportable geographical segments.
Other Information (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Petroleum  Products Petro-  chemicals Other  Business Total Petroleum  Products Petro- chemicals Other  Business Total Other Information Segment Assets  3,46,448.69  35,187.89  28,666.11  4,10,302.69  3,24,413.33  33,557.97  25,289.25  3,83,260.55  Corporate Assets  Goodwill - On Consolidation  1.04  1.04   Investments (Current and Non Current)  65,541.90  52,190.46   Advances For Investments  1,604.67  1,514.01   Advance Tax  1,828.80  1,868.37   Interest Accrued On Investments/ Bank  Deposits   -    0.35   Loans  3,079.92  2,664.84   Derivative Asset  2.98  218.12   Finance Lease Receivables  -    0.74  Total Assets  4,82,362.00  4,41,718.48  (J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Petroleum  Products Petro-  chemicals Other  Business Total Petroleum  Products Petro- chemicals Other  Business Total Segment Liabilities  1,34,714.99  1,750.00  4,801.95  1,41,266.94  1,26,740.52  1,299.11  4,400.27  1,32,439.90  Corporate Liabilities  Provision For Taxation  954.37  29.37   Borrowings (Short Term and Long Term)  1,23,453.57  1,40,114.82   Lease Obligations (Short Term and Long Term)  9,173.99  8,862.26   Deferred Tax Liability  18,960.70  16,800.42   Interest Accrued But Not Due On Borrowings  28.37  21.40   Derivative Liabilities  361.08  235.97  Total Liabilities  2,94,199.02  2,98,504.14  Capital Employed Segment Wise  2,11,733.70  33,437.89  23,864.16  2,69,035.75  1,97,672.80  32,258.86  20,888.99  2,50,820.65  Corporate  (80,873.81)  (1,07,607.35) Total Capital Employed  1,88,161.94  1,43,213.30  Capital Expenditure  33,137.92  5,708.93  3,028.65  41,875.50  28,732.46  6,173.56  2,594.66  37,500.68  Depreciation and Amortization  13,220.66  1,258.03  1,387.42  15,866.11  11,241.92  957.36  981.77  13,181.05  NOTE - 39: SEGMENT INFORMATION (Contd..) Geographical information Revenue from major products and services (J in crore) Revenue from external customers Non-current  assets Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 India  8,34,350.03  9,00,880.07  2,64,275.08  2,36,690.20  Outside India  46,885.42  50,529.87  15,803.50  16,600.10  Total  8,81,235.45  9,51,409.94  2,80,078.58  2,53,290.30  (J in crore) Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value  measurement  hierarchy level As at  March 31, 2024 As at  March 31, 2023 As at  March 31, 2024 As at  March 31, 2023 Financial Assets A.
Fair Value through Other  Comprehensive Income  (FVTOCI): Quoted Equity Shares  32,966.25  18,188.71  32,966.25  18,188.71 Level 1 Unquoted Equity Instruments  (Refer Note-2 below)  4,688.41  1,148.67  4,688.41  1,148.67 Level 3 Quoted Government Securities  9,530.90  11,090.45  9,530.90  11,090.45 Level 1 Hedging derivatives  Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Loans  -    32.80  -    32.80 Level 2 Commodity forward contracts-  Margin Hedging  2.98  130.97  2.98  130.97 Level 2 Interest Rate Swap  -    54.35  -    54.35 Level 2 (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Motor Spirit (MS)  1,96,193.13  1,97,690.50  High Speed Diesel (HSD)  4,06,028.48  4,37,898.23  Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)  1,02,693.67  1,23,130.44  Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF)  44,576.67  49,118.92  Others  1,31,743.50  1,43,571.85  Total External Revenue  8,81,235.45  9,51,409.94  NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT I.
Set out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying value and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments, along  with the fair value measurement hierarchy: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 402 403  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) (J in crore) Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value  measurement  hierarchy level As at  March 31, 2024 As at  March 31, 2023 As at  March 31, 2024 As at  March 31, 2023 B.
Fair Value through Profit and  Loss (FVTPL): Unit Trust Investments  412.17  66.76  412.17  66.76 Level 1 Investment through PMS  436.79  208.08  436.79  208.08 Level 1 C. Amortised Cost: Loans to employees  2,199.72  1,742.60  2,092.71  1,623.04 Level 2 PMUY Loan (Refer point 1 of  Note-48 for more details)  356.45  513.62  359.87  522.37 Level 3 Financial Liabilities A. Amortised Cost: Non-Convertible Debentures  17,723.38  23,992.72  18,246.54  24,627.77 Level 2 Term Loans from Oil Industry  Development Board (OIDB)  24.70  74.19  25.38  75.63 Level 2 Loan from Odisha Government  2,351.95  1,970.30  2,456.80  1,837.53 Level 2 Term Loan (USD 100 Mn)  -    822.51  -    781.87 Level 2 B.
Fair Value through Profit and  Loss (FVTPL): Derivative Instruments at fair  value through profit or loss   360.83  235.97  360.83  235.97 Level 2 C. Fair Value through Other  Comprehensive Income  (FVTOCI): Hedging Derivatives  Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Loans  0.25  -    0.25  -   Level 2 Note:       1.
The management has assessed that fair values of Trade Receivables, Trade Payables, Cash and Cash Equivalents, Bank Balances  & Bank Deposits, Loans (incl.
Security Deposits) other than mentioned above, Short Term Borrowings (incl.
Current Maturities of  Long Term Borrowings), Floating Rate Borrowings, Lease Liabilities, Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current Financial Assets &  Other Non-Derivative Current/ Non-Current Financial Liabilities approximate their carrying amounts.
2.
During the year, the Compulsorily Convertible Debentures in Indian Oil LNG Private Limited amounting to H 3,665 crore were  converted into Optionally Convertible Debentures and the company exercised its option to redeem the same.
Further, the Parent  Company has subscribed to 366.50 crore share warrants of Indian Oil LNG Private Limited at a price of H 3,661.34 crore (H 9.99  per warrant).
Each warrant entitles the holder to subscribe to and be allotted 1 share (face value H 10), at a predetermined exercise  price of H 0.01 per warrant, within the exercise period of 15 years.
Methods and Assumptions  The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values at the reporting date: A.
Level 1 Hierarchy:  (i) Quoted Equity Shares: Closing quoted price (unadjusted) in National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Tel Aviv Stock Exchange,  Israel and NASDAQ, New York  (ii) Quoted Government Securities: Closing published price (unadjusted) in Clearing Corporation of India Limited  (iii) Foreign Currency Bonds - US Dollars: Closing price (unadjusted) for the specific bond collected from active market  (iv) Unit Trust Investment/PMS: Closing NAV for the specific investment available in Trust Bulletin/ Newspaper/PMS B.
Level 2 Hierarchy:   (i) Derivative Instruments at FVTPL: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use of  market observable inputs.
(ii) Hedging Derivatives at FVTOCI: Replacement cost quoted by institutions for similar instruments by employing use of market  observable inputs.
(iii) Loans to employees : Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for items on similar terms, credit risk  and remaining maturities, adjusted for insignificant unobservable inputs specific to such loan like principal and interest  repayments are such that employee get more flexibility in repayment as per the respective loan schemes.
(iv)  Non-Convertible Debentures, Loan from Odisha Government and USD 100 Mn Term Loan: Discounting future cash flows using  rates currently available for items on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities (Excluding floating rate borrowings).
(v)  Term Loans from Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB): Discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for  similar type of borrowings (OIDB Borrowing Rate) using exit model as per Ind AS 113.
C. Level 3 Hierarchy:  (i) Unquoted Equity Instruments: Fair values of the unquoted equity instruments have been estimated using Market Approach  or Income Approach of valuation techniques with the help of external valuer.
Valuation as per Market Approach technique is  determined by comparing the company’s accounting ratios with another company’s of the same nature and size which are  considered to be significant to valuation, such as earnings, cash flow, book value, or sales of various business of the same  nature.
Valuation as per Income Approach technique is determined by discounting future cash flows to present value using  a discount rate.
These valuation requires management to use unobservable inputs in the model, of which the significant  unobservable inputs are disclosed in the tables below.
(ii) PMUY Loan: Fair value of PMUY loans is estimated by discounting future cash flows using approximate interest rates  applicable on loans given by Banks duly adjusted for significant use of unobservable inputs in estimating the cash flows  comprising of specific qualitative and quantitative factors like consumption pattern, assumption of subsidy rate etc.
The significant unobservable inputs used in fair value assessment categorised within Level 3 of the Fair Value Hierarchy together  with a quantitative sensitivity analysis as on March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 are shown below: NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) Description Valuation  technique Significant  unobservable  inputs Range  (weighted  average) Sensitivity of the  input to fair value I Unquoted Equity Instruments   Equity Shares of Haldia  Petrochemicals Limited  (Refer Note-4 for Carrying Value) Market  Approach  -EBITDA  Multiple EBITDA  multiple 31.03.24:  7.6x - 8x (7.8x)  31.03.23: 7.3x -  7.7x (7.5.x) 0.1x increase/(decrease) in EBITDA  Multiple would result in increase/ (decrease) in fair value by:  31.03.24: H 5.4 crore/ H(5.5) crore  31.03.23: H 12.7 crore/ H(12.7) crore II Unquoted Equity Instrument  Equity Shares of Ceylon Petroleum  Storage Terminals Limited   (Refer Note-4 for Carrying Value) Market  Approach  -Revenue  Multiple Revenue  Multiple 31.03.24: 1.0x  - 1.4x (1.2x)  31.03.23: 0.8x -  1.2x (1.0x)  0.1x increase/(decrease) in Revenue  Multiple would result in increase/ (decrease) in fair value by:  31.03.24: H 12.9 crore/ H(13.0) crore  31.03.23: H 11.5 crore/ H(11.6) crore  III Unquoted Equity Instrument  Petrocarababo S.A. and  Carabobo Ingenieria Y  Construcciones S.A.   (Refer Note-4 for Carrying Value) Income  Approach -  Present Value  Measurement Discount  Rate 31.03.24: 30.5%  - 34.5% (32.5%)  31.03.23: 33.0%  - 37.0% (35.0%) 1% increase/(decrease) in Discount  Rate would result in (decrease)/ increase in fair value by:  31.03.24: H(0.7) crore/ H 0.7 crore  31.03.23: H(2.1) crore/ H 1.7 crore Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 404 405  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..)  Unquoted Equity Instruments carried at FVTOCI includes following investments for which sensitivity disclosure is not disclosed:  Reconciliation of fair value measurement of Assets and Liabilities under Level 3 hierarchy of Fair Value measurement: Carrying Value (J in crore) As at  March 31, 2024 As at  March 31, 2023 Indian Gas Exchange Limited 13.36 12.50 Trinco Petroleum Terminal Private Limited 2.72 1.23 Vasitars Private Limited 0.77 0.77 BioTech Consortium India Limited 0.10 0.10 International Cooperative Petroleum Association, New York 0.02 0.02 MRL Industrial Cooperative Service Society 0.01 0.01 (J in crore) FVTOCI Assets Unquoted Equity Shares Balance as at March 31, 2023  1,148.67  Addition  3,662.61  Fair Value Changes (137.01)  Exchange Difference  14.13  Balance as at March 31, 2024  4,688.41  II.
Disclosures relating to recognition of differences between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price  In the following cases, the Group has not recognized gains/losses in profit or loss on initial recognition of financial assets/ financial  liability, instead, such gains/losses are deferred and recognized as per the accounting policy mentioned below.
Financial Assets  1.
Loan to Employees   As per the terms of service, the Group has given long term loan to its employees  at concessional interest rate.
Transaction  price is not fair value because loans are not extended at market rates applicable to employees.
Since implied benefit is  on the basis of the services rendered by the employee, it is deferred and recognized as employee benefit expense over  the loan period.
2.
PMUY loan   The PMUY loan is the interest free loan given to PMUY beneficiaries towards cost of burner and 1st refill.
The loan is interest  free and therefore transaction price is not at fair value.
The difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated  in Deferred expenses and amortized over the loan period on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
3.
Security Deposits   The security deposit is paid to landlord in relation to lease of land.
The security deposit is interest free and therefore transaction  price is not fair value.
The difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated in Deferred expenses and  amortized over the loan period on straight line basis in the statement of Profit and loss till March 31, 2019 prior to introduction  of IND AS 116.
Financial Liabilities        1.
Security Deposits    In case certain deposits payable to deceased employees under one of the superannuation benefit scheme (R2 option) and  security deposits received in relation to some revenue expenses contracts, transaction price is not considered as fair value  because deposits are interest free.
The difference between fair value and transaction price is accumulated in Deferred income  and amortized over the tenure of security deposit on straight line basis in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Reconciliation of deferred gains/losses yet to be recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss are as under: NOTE - 40: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Contd..) (J in crore) Particulars  Opening  Balance   Addition  During the Year   Amortized  During the Year   Adjusted  During the Year  Closing  Balance 2023-2024 Deferred Expenses Loan to employees  864.33  266.19  80.95  (0.04)  1,049.61  PMUY Loan  236.24  -    30.26  1.53  204.45  Deferred Income Security Deposits  3.08  0.05  1.51  -    1.62  2022-2023 Deferred Expenses Loan to employees  857.97  90.06  83.70 -  864.33  PMUY Loan  273.21  -    27.53  9.44  236.24  Security Deposits  1.09  -    -    1.09  -    Deferred Income Security Deposits  3.70  0.13  0.75  -    3.08  NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS Financial Risk Factors The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise Borrowings, trade and other payables, security deposits,  employee  liabilities and  lease obligation.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide  guarantees to support its operations.
The Group’s principal financial assets include loans & advances, trade and other receivables, short- term deposits and cash / cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
The Group also holds FVTOCI investments and enters  into derivative transactions.
The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks arising from natural business exposures as well as its use of financial  instruments including market risk relating to interest rate, commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price, credit  risk and liquidity risk.
The Risk Management Committee comprised of senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Group’s senior  management is supported by a Risk Management Compliance Board that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk  governance framework for the Group.
The Risk Management Committee provides assurance to the Board that the Group’s  risks are  governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that  risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Group’s  policies, risk objectives and risk appetite.
The Group's requirement of crude oil are managed through integrated function handled through its international trade and optimization  department.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills,  experience and supervision.
As per the Group’s policy, derivatives contracts are taken only to hedge the various risks that the Group is  exposed to and not for speculation purpose.
The Board of Directors oversee the risk management activities for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below: A.
Market risk  Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market  prices.
The major components of market risk are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk and other price  risk viz.
equity shares etc.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include Borrowings, Deposits, FVTOCI investments and  derivative financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement  obligations, provisions, and other non-financial assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
1.
Interest Rate Risk   The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows of  a financial instrument, principally financial debt.
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates  primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 406 407  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..)   The Group manages to maintain a mix between fixed and floating rates for rupee and foreign currency loans, based on  liquidity, availability of cost effective instruments and considering the market/ regulatory constraints etc.
The Group also  use interest rate swap contracts for managing the interest rate risk of floating interest rate debt.
As at March 31, 2024,  approximately 38% of the Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest (March 31, 2023: 39%).
Pursuant to phasing out of USD LIBOR benchmark, the last date of its publication was June 30, 2023.
Meanwhile, the Group  has completed the transition exercise of the existing USD LIBOR linked instruments to alternate benchmark.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected, with all  other variables held constant, on INR and USD floating rate borrowings is per table below.
The Group’s exposure to interest  rate changes for all other currency borrowings is not material.
Currency Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on profit  before tax  (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease in  basis points Effect on profit  before tax  (J in crore) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 INR +50 (48.94) +50 (70.09) US Dollar +50 (313.72) +50 (340.21) INR -50 48.94 -50 70.09  US Dollar -50 313.72 -50 340.21  Currency of Borrowings Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax  (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax  (J in crore) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Forward Contract - US Dollar +5% 90.54 +5% 123.69  -5% (90.54) -5% (123.69) Other Exposures - US Dollar +5% (5,314.28) +5% (5,925.45) -5% 5,314.28 -5% 5,925.45  Cross Currency - USD vs. INR +5% (333.18) +5% (328.25) -5%  333.18 -5% 328.25   2.
Foreign Currency Risk             Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in  foreign exchange rates.
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s  operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency) and Borrowings.
The Group manages its foreign currency risk through combination of natural hedge, mandatory hedging and hedging  undertaken on occurrence of pre-determined triggers.
The hedging is mostly undertaken through forward contracts.
The Group has outstanding forward contract of H 1,810.72 crore as at March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: H 2,473.89 crore)  which has been undertaken to hedge its exposure to borrowings and other financial liabilities.
The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD/INR exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, the impact on  the Group’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities including non-designated foreign  currency derivatives.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies other than below is not material.
The effects of most exchange rate fluctuations are absorbed in business operating results which are offset by changing cost  competitiveness, lags in market adjustments to movements in rates to its other non-financial assets like inventory etc.
For  this reason, the total effect of exchange rate fluctuations is not identifiable separately in the Group's reported results.
3.
Commodity Price Risk             The Group is exposed to various commodity price related risk such as Refinery Margins i.e.
Differential between the prices  of petroleum products & crude oil, Crude Oil Price fluctuation on accounts of inventory valuation fluctuation and crude oil  imports, etc.
As per approved risk management policy, the Group can undertake refinery margin hedging, inventory hedging  and crude oil price hedging through swaps, options and futures in the OTC market as well as domestic exchanges to mitigate  the risk within the approved limits.
Category-wise quantitative data about commodity derivative transactions that are outstanding as at the end of the financial  year is given below: NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..)  Quantity (in lakh bbls) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Margin Hedging Forward contracts  2.25  20.25    The sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Crude benchmark price difference/ refinery margin on the outstanding  commodity hedging position as on March 31, 2024: Particulars Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax  (J in crore) Increase/  Decrease in % Effect on profit  before tax  (J in crore) March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Margin Hedging +10% (3.55) +10% (32.78) -10% 3.55 -10% 32.78  J in crore Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Other  Financial  Assets Other  Financial  Liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Foreign Exchange currency swap  -    360.83  -    235.97  Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans  -    0.25  32.80  -    Interest Rate Swap  -    -    54.35  -    Commodity Forward Contracts - Margin Hedging  2.98  -    130.97  -     4.
Equity Price Risk             The Group’s investment in listed and non-listed equity securities, other than its investments in Joint Ventures/ Associates and  Subsidiaries, are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities.
At the reporting date, the exposure to unlisted equity securities at fair value was H 4,688.41 crore Sensitivity analysis of these  investments have been provided in Note 40.
The exposure to listed equity securities valued at fair value was H 32,966.25 crore An increase/ decrease of 5% on the share  price could have an impact of approximately H 1,648.31 crore on the OCI and equity attributable to the Group.
These changes  would not have an effect on profit or loss.
5.
Derivatives and Hedging             (i) Classification of derivatives    The Group is exposed to certain market risks relating to its ongoing business operations as explained above.
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments.
However, where derivatives  do not meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Information about  the derivatives used by the Group and outstanding as at the end of  the financial year  is provided below: Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 408 409  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..)   (ii) Hedging activities    The primary risks managed using derivative instruments are commodity price risk, foreign currency risk and  interest rate risk.
Commodity Price Risk    IndianOil buys crude and sells petroleum products linked to international benchmark prices and these benchmark  prices do not move in tandem.
This exposes IndianOil to the risk of variation in refining margins which is managed by  margin hedging.
The risk of fall in refining margins of petroleum products in highly probable forecast sale transactions is hedged by  undertaking crack spread forward contracts.
The Group wants to protect the realization of margins and therefore to  mitigate this risk, the Group is taking these forward contracts to hedge the margin on highly probable forecast sale in  future.
Risk management activities are undertaken in OTC market i.e.
these are the bilateral contracts with registered  counterparties.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Foreign Currency Risk    The Group is exposed to various foreign currency risks as explained in A.2 above.
As per Group's Foreign Currency  & Interest Rate Risk Management Policy, the Group is required to fully hedge the short term foreign currency loans  (other than revolving lines and PCFC loans) and at least 50%  of the long term foreign currency loans based on  market conditions.
Apart from mandatory hedging of loans, the Group also undertakes foreign currency forward contracts for the  management of currency purchase for repayment of crude/ product liabilities based on market conditions and  requirements.
The above hedgings are  undertaken through delivery based forward contracts.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Interest Rate Risk              The Group is exposed to interest rate risks on floating rate borrowings as explained in A.1 above.
Group hedges  interest rate risk by taking interest rate swaps as per Group's Interest Rate Risk Management Policy based on market  conditions.
The Group uses interest rate derivatives to hedge exposure to interest payments for floating rate borrowings  denominated in foreign currencies.
All these hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Hedge Effectiveness    There is an economic relationship between the hedged items and the hedging instruments as the terms of the foreign  exchange and commodity forward contracts match the terms of hedge items.
The Group has established a hedge  ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the underlying risk of the foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity  forward contracts are identical to the hedged risk components.
To test the hedge effectiveness, the Group compares the  changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments against the changes in fair value of the hedged items attributable  to the hedged risks.
In case of interest rate swaps, as the critical terms of the interest rate swap contracts and their  corresponding hedged items are similar, the Group performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness and it is expected  that the value of the interest rate swap contracts and the value of the corresponding hedged items will systematically  change in opposite direction in response to movements in the underlying interest rates.
Source of Hedge ineffectiveness    In case of commodity price risk, the Group has identified the following sources of ineffectiveness, which are not  expected to be material: 	 Differences in the timing of the cash flows of the hedged items and the hedging instruments 	 Different indexes linked to the hedged risk of the hedged items and hedging instruments 	 The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value movements of the hedging instruments  and hedged items  	 Changes to the forecasted amount of cash flows of hedged items and hedging instruments    In case of foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, the main source of hedge ineffectiveness is the effect of the  counterparty and the Group’s own credit risk on the fair value of hedge contracts, which is not reflected in the fair value  of the hedged items.
The effect of this is not expected to be material.
Disclosures of effects of Cash Flow Hedge Accounting    Hedging instruments      The Group is holding the following hedging instruments: NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) As at March 31, 2024 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to 3  months 3 to 6  months 6 to 12  months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans Nominal amount  -    1,670.24  -    -    -    1,670.24  Average forward rate (H)  -    83.51  -    -    -    Foreign exchange forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liabilities Nominal amount  140.48  -    -    -    -    140.48  Average forward rate (H)  83.35  -    -    -    -    Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount  -    -    -    -    -    -    Commodity forward contracts- Margin Hedging Nominal volume (Quantity in lakh bbls)  -    0.50  0.75  1.00  -    2.25  Nominal amount  -    8.55  12.82  17.10  -    38.47  Average forward rate ($ /bbl)  -    20.50  20.50  20.50  -    -  (J in crore) As at March 31, 2023 Maturity Less than  1 month 1 to 3  months 3 to 6  months 6 to 12  months More than  12 Months Total Foreign exchange forward contracts- Loans Nominal amount  -    -    -   2,473.89  -    2,473.89  Average forward rate (H)  -    -    -    82.46  -    Foreign exchange forward contracts-  Crude/ Product  Liabilities Nominal amount  -    -    -    -    -    -    Average forward rate (H)  -    -    -    -    -    Interest Rate Swaps Nominal amount  -    -    -    -    1,643.50 1643.50  Commodity forward contracts- Margin Hedging Nominal volume (Quantity in lakh bbls)  -    4.50  6.75  9.00  -    20.25  Nominal amount  -    101.95  152.92  203.89  -    458.76  Average forward rate ($ /bbl)  -    27.57  27.57  27.57  -    Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 410 411  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..)   The impact of the hedging instruments on the Balance Sheet is as under: (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Crude/ Product  Liabilities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March   31, 2024 March   31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 Nominal amount 1670.24 2473.89 140.48  -    -   1643.50 38.47 458.76  Carrying amount (0.25) 32.80  -    -    -   54.35 2.98 130.97  Line item in the Balance Sheet that  includes Hedging Instruments Other Current Financial Assets / Other Current Financial Liabilities Change in fair value used for measuring  ineffectiveness for the period - Gain (Loss) (0.25) 32.80  -   17.91 60.40 54.35 80.86 11.96  (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Crude/ Product  Liabilities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March   31, 2024 March   31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 Balance in Cash flow hedge reserve as at  the end of the year for continuing hedges  (net of tax)  -    -    -    -   0.47 41.14 1.75 97.53  Change in value of the hedged items  used for measuring ineffectiveness for  the period 0.25 (32.80)  -   (17.91) (60.40) (54.35) (80.86) (11.96) (J in crore) Foreign exchange  forward contracts-  Loans Foreign exchange forward  contracts- Crude/ Product  Liabilities Interest Rate Swaps Commodity forward  contracts- Margin  Hedging March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March   31, 2024 March   31, 2023 March  31, 2024 March  31, 2023 March   31, 2024 March   31, 2023 Cash flow Hedge Reserve at the  beginning of the year  -    -    -    -   41.14 40.24 97.53 (12.92) Total hedging gain/(loss) recognised  in OCI (34.50) 89.84 1.37 17.91 6.05 45.11 (50.11) 28.61  Income tax on above 8.68 (22.61) (0.34) (4.51) (1.52) (11.35) 12.61 (7.20) Ineffectiveness recognised in profit  or loss  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    Line item in the statement of profit  or loss that includes the recognized  ineffectiveness NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Amount reclassified from OCI to profit  or loss (34.50) 89.84 1.37 17.91 60.40 43.91 77.88 (118.99) Income tax on above 8.68 (22.61) (0.34) (4.51) (15.20) (11.05) (19.60) 29.95  Cash flow Hedge Reserve at the end  of the year  -    -    -    -   0.47 41.14 1.75 97.53  Line item in the statement of profit or  loss that includes the reclassification  adjustments Other  Expenses Other  Expenses Other  Expenses Other  Expenses Finance  Cost Finance  Cost Revenue  from  Operations Revenue  from  Operations   Hedge Items   The impact of the Hedged Items on the Balance Sheet is as follows:   The effect of the cash flow hedge in the Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income is as follows: B.
Credit risk  Trade Receivables  Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control relating  to customer credit risk management.
Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard and  individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored  and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by Letters of Credit, Bank Guarantees or other forms of credit  insurance, wherever required.
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients.
In addition, a large number of  minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively.
The Group applies Simplified  approach for providing the expected credit losses on Trade Receivables as per the accounting policy of the Group.
The maximum  exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed in Note 10.
The Group  evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions  and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) Unbilled Not Due Less  than 6  months Above 6  months to  1 year Above 1  year to 2  years Above 2  years to 3  years > 3 years Total Year ended March 31, 2024 Gross Carrying amount  40.52  9,101.50  3,998.40  264.29  216.02  197.34  371.81  14,189.88  Expected loss rate 0.37%  0.00  0.02 2.01% 2.37% 1.59% 2.96% Expected credit losses  (0.15)  (38.43)  (76.91)  (5.32)  (5.12)  (3.14)  (10.99)  (140.06) Specific Provision  -    -    -    (55.56)  (0.50)  (0.55)  (161.76)  (218.37) Carrying amount  40.37  9,063.07 3,921.49  203.41  210.40  193.65  199.06 13,831.45  Year ended March 31, 2023 Gross Carrying amount  169.34  7,936.78  7,000.99  865.20  499.66  125.98  322.90  16,920.85  Expected loss rate 0.32% 0.40% 3.17% 3.09% 3.53% 2.81% 2.06% Expected credit losses  (0.54)  (31.57)  (221.89)  (26.72)  (17.66)  (3.54)  (6.65)  (308.57) Specific Provision  -    (48.20)  -    -    (0.25)  (1.29)  (163.85)  (213.59) Carrying amount  168.80  7,857.01 6,779.10  838.48  481.75  121.15  152.40 16,398.69   Other Financial instruments and cash deposits  The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the Balance Sheet at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 is  the carrying amounts as provided in Note 4, 5, 6, 11 & 12.
The Group applies General approach for providing the expected credit  losses on these items as per the accounting policy of the Group.
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with  the Group’s policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to  each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are approved by the Group’s Board of Directors.
The limits are set to minimise the  concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty’s potential failure to make payments.
The Group has given loans to PMUY (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana) customers which are shown under Loans in Note-5.
PMUY  loans are given to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families as per GOI scheme wherein free LPG connections are issued by Oil  Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) households.
As per the scheme, OMCs are  providing an option for interest free loan towards cost of burner and 1 st refill to PMUY consumers which is to be recovered from  the subsidy amount payable to customer when such customers book refill.
In case of certain PMUY loans, the Company has determined that there is significant increase in the credit risk.
The Company  considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of the loan and whether there has been a significant increase in credit  risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period.
It considers past experience and time elapsed since the last refill  for determining probability of default on collective basis.
The Company has categorized the PMUY loans wherein credit risk has  increased significantly under various categories considering the likelihood of default based on time gap since last refill.
ECL is  provided @70% (2023: based on experience factor) in case of time gap since last refill is more than 6 months but not exceeding 12  months, @ 80% (2023: @ 80%) in case of time gap since last refill is more than 12 months but not exceeding 18 months, @ 90%  (2023: @ 90%) in case of time gap is more than 18 months but not exceeding 24 months and @ 100% (2023: @100%) for those  consumers who have not taken any refill more than 24 months.
ECL is provided for the loans where the refill is taken within last 6  months (2023: 12 months) based on experience ratio of more than 6 months (2023: 12 months) as above.
The PMUY loans are  classified as credit impaired as on reporting date considering significant financial difficulty in case the customer has not taken any  refill from past 24 months (2023: 24 months).
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 412 413  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) 2023-2024 Opening  Balance  A ECL created  during the year  B ECL write  Back   C ECL written off/  Reclassifications D Closing  Balance  (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected credit losses  308.56     10.43     (178.95)    -       140.04     Specific Provision  213.59     10.23     (2.69)    (2.76)    218.37     Total  522.15     20.66     (181.64)    (2.76)    358.41     Loans 12 Months ECL  241.53     33.08     -       -       274.61     Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  108.75     81.27     -       -       190.02     Life Time ECL- credit impaired  809.97     278.72     (0.02)    0.06     1,088.73     Total  1,160.25     393.07     (0.02)    0.06     1,553.36     Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.36     0.03     -       -       1.39     Total  1.36     0.03     -       -       1.39     Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  240.11     51.39     (9.28)    (0.44)    281.78     Total  240.11     51.39     (9.28)    (0.44)    281.78     (J in crore) 2022-2023 Opening  Balance  A ECL created  during the year  B ECL write  Back   C ECL written off/  Reclassifications  D Closing  Balance  (A+B+C+D) Trade Receivables Expected Credit Loss  234.93     74.16     (0.53)    -       308.56     Specific Provision  177.78     53.98     (18.02)    (0.15)    213.59     Total  412.71     128.14     (18.55)    (0.15)    522.15     Loans 12 Months ECL  196.91     44.62     -       -       241.53     Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  128.76     -       (20.01)    -       108.75     Life Time ECL- credit impaired  556.60     254.22     (0.85)    -       809.97     Total  882.27     298.84     (20.86)    -       1,160.25     Security Deposits 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  1.42     -       (0.06)    -       1.36     Total  1.42     -       (0.06)    -       1.36     Other Financial assets 12 Months ECL  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- not credit impaired  -       -       -       -       -       Life Time ECL- credit impaired  250.78     6.62     (17.26)    (0.03)    240.11     Total  250.78     6.62     (17.26)    (0.03)    240.11      In case of other financial assets, there are certain credit impaired cases mainly due to breach of contract arising due to default or  bankruptcy proceedings.
The movement in the loss allowance for impairment of financial assets at amortised cost during the year was as follows: C. Liquidity risk            The Group monitors its risk of shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tool.
The Group seeks to manage its liquidity requirement  by maintaining access to both short term and long term debt markets.
In addition, Group has committed credit facilities from banks.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts,  commercial papers, bank loans, debentures, and  leases.
The Group assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing  its debt and concluded it to be low.
The Group has access to a sufficient variety of sources of funding.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual payments.
NOTE – 41: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK FACTORS (Contd..) (J in crore) On demand Less than 3  months 3 to 12  months 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Year ended March 31, 2024 Borrowings  8,068.16  22,516.00  46,076.51  38,191.53  8,601.37  1,23,453.57  Lease Obligations  -    1,293.05  1,548.95  3,281.02  3,050.97  9,173.99  Trade payables  9,445.58  49,969.42  39.10  -    -    59,454.10  Other financial liabilities  32,786.21  15,660.40  1,784.65  224.63  8.48  50,464.37  Derivatives  -    361.08  -    -    -    361.08   50,299.95  89,799.95  49,449.21  41,697.18  11,660.82  2,42,907.11  Year ended March 31, 2023 Borrowings  10,517.35  18,448.60  47,835.93  55,093.22  8,219.72  1,40,114.82  Lease Obligations  -    1,043.45  1,341.90  2,978.58  3,498.33  8,862.26  Trade payables  2,556.46  52,177.67  -    -    -    54,734.13  Other financial liabilities  30,743.57  13,436.61  1,010.40  144.25  16.54  45,351.37  Derivatives  -    235.97  -    -    -    235.97   43,817.38  85,342.30  50,188.23  58,216.05  11,734.59  2,49,298.55  D. Excessive risk concentration            Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same  geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly  affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s  performance to developments affecting a particular industry.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Group’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on the  maintenance of a diversified portfolio.
Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly.
E. Collateral  As Group has been rated investment grade by various domestic and international rating agencies, there has been no requirement of  submitting any collateral for booking of derivative contracts.
Group undertakes derivatives contract only with those counterparties  that have credit rating above the internally approved threshold rating.
Accordingly, Group does not seek any collaterals from its  counterparties.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 414 415  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–42: CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to maximise the shareholder value.
Capital includes issued equity  capital, share premium and all other equity reserves, attributable to the equity shareholders, for the purpose of the Group’s  capital management.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and requirements.
The  Group determines the capital requirement based on annual operating plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans.
The  Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares to maintain or adjust the  capital structure.
The Group monitors capital using debt equity ratio, which is borrowings divided by Equity.
The Group’s endeavour is to  keep the debt equity ratio around 1:1.
(J in crore) Particulars March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Borrowings  1,23,453.57  1,40,114.82  Equity Share Capital  13,771.56  13,771.56  Reserves and Surplus  1,74,391.42  1,29,442.78  Equity  1,88,162.98  1,43,214.34  Debt Equity Ratio 0.66 : 1 0.98 : 1 NOTE–43: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS A.
Revenue Grants 1 Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) and LPG (Domestic)  Subsidies on sales of SKO (PDS) and LPG (Domestic) in India amounting to H 93.80 crore (2023: H 197.84 crore) and subsidies  on sales of SKO and LPG to customers in Bhutan amounting to H 5.80 crore (2023: H 6.73 crore) have been reckoned as per the  schemes notified by Governments.
2 Export of Notified Goods under MEIS Claims/RoDTEP scheme/Duty Drawback scheme   The Group has recognised  H 37.62 crore (2023: H 47.98 crore) on export of notified goods under Merchandise Exports from India  Scheme (MEIS)/ Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP)//Duty Drawback scheme in the Statement of  Profit and Loss as Revenue Grant.
3 Stipend to apprentices under NATS/NAPS scheme  As per Ministry of HRD, 50% of the cost of stipend for apprentices which are paid under National Apprenticeship Training Scheme  (NATS) will be reimbursed to employer from Government subject to prescribed threshold limit.
The Group has recognised grant in  respect of stipend paid to apprentices appointed under National Apprenticeship Training Scheme (NATS) amounting to H 8.44 crore  (2023: H 9.49 crore) as Revenue Grant.
4 Grant  in respect of revenue expenditure for research projects  During the year, the Group has received revenue grant of H 0.47 crore (2023: H 2.05 crore) in respect of meeting out revenue  expenditure such as Manpower, Consumables, Travel & Contingency etc for research projects undertaken with various agencies.
5 Incentive on sale of power  Group is getting incentive from Department of Renewable Energy, GOI for wind power generation of Electricity at the rate of H 0.50  paise for per unit of power generated.
The Group has received grant of  H 1.46 crore during the current year (2023: H 2.19 crore).
6 EPCG Grant  Grant recognized in respect of duty waiver on procurement of capital goods under EPCG scheme of Central Govt.
which allows  procurement of capital goods including spares for pre production and post production at zero duty subject to an export obligation  of 6 times of the duty saved on capital goods procured.
The unamortized grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 12.54 crore  (2023: H 12.54 crore) .
During the year, the Group has recognised Nil (2023: Nil) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation  of revenue grant.
The Group expects to meet the export obligations and therefore equivalent deferred grant has not been  treated as liability.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the financial year ended March 31, 2024  and March 31, 2023.
7 Excise duty benefit in North East  Excise duty exemption of 50% of goods manufactured and cleared from north east refineries has been reckoned at full value  in revenue and on net basis in expenses under 'Excise Duty' (to the extent of duty paid).
Financial impact for the current year is   H 3,816.73 crore (2023: H 3,886.45 crore).
8 Viability Gap Funding (VGF)  The Group has received grant in the form of interest free loans from Orissa Government for a period of 15 years.
The unamortized  grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 2901.21 crore (2023: H 2,654.75 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised H 241.15  crore (2023: H 208.56 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of grants.
9 Grant for under recoveries in Domestic LPG  The Parent Company has received one-time grant of Nil  (2023: H 10,801 crore) from Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas for under- recoveries in Domestic LPG which is recognised as revenue in the statement of Profit & Loss.
(Refer Note 23).
B.
Capital Grants 1 OIDB Government Grant for strengthening distribution of SKO (PDS)  The Group has received  government grant from OIDB (Oil Industry Development Board)  for strengthening distribution of PDS  Kerosene as per the directions of MoP&NG to be used in construction of 20KL underground Tank, Mechanical Dispensing Units  and Barrel Shed.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is  H 0.31 crore (2023: H 0.46 crore).
During the year,  the Group has recognised  H 0.15 crore (2023: H 0.13 crore)  in Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
2 Capital Grant in respect of Excise duty, Custom duty and GST waiver  The Group has received grant in respect of Custom duty waiver on import on capital goods, Excise duty waiver and GST waiver  on purchase of goods from local manufacturer in India under the certificate issued by Department of Scientific and Industrial  Research (DSIR).
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 49.48 crore (2023: H 61.63 crore) The goods so  imported or procured from local manufacturer shall not be transferred or sold for a period of five years from date of installation.
During the year, the Group has recognised H 11.93 crore (2023: H 12.82 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation  of capital grants.
However, the scheme of GST concession on purchase of goods from local manufacturer under certificate issued  by DSIR has been discontinued from 18.07.2022 and accordingly no new grant has been recognised thereafter in this regard.
3 Capital Grant in respect of Research projects  The Group has received capital grant from various agencies in respect of procurement/ setting up of Capital assets for research  projects undertaken.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 7.64 crore (2023: H 7.45 crore).
During the  year, the Group has recognised H 1.75 crore (2023: H 2.14 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
4 Capital Grant in respect of Entry Tax Exemption from Odisha Govt.
Entry Tax exemption received from Odisha Government for Paradip Refinery Project has been recognized as Capital Grant and  grossed up with the concerned Assets.The unamortized capital grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 89.55 crore (2023:   H 94.88 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised H 5.34 crore (2023: H 5.34 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as  amortisation of capital grants.
5 Capital Grant in respect of demonstration unit  Grant received from OIDB/CHT/USTDA for setting up units for Ethanol production from Refinery off gases/Lignocellulosic  Biomass at Panipat Refinery.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 305.42 crore (2023: H 311.92 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised H 6.50 crore (2023: H 0.54 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of  capital grants.
6 Capital Grant in respect of construction of units using Indigenous Technology   Grant received from OIDB for setting up of demonstration unit at Guwahati refinery with the Parent Company's R&D developed  IndaDeptG technology.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 57.57 crore (2023: H 61.30 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised H 3.72 crore (2023: H 4.21 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of  capital grants.
NOTE–43: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 416 417  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–43: DISCLOSURE ON GOVERNMENT GRANTS (Contd..) 7 Capital Grant in respect of interest subsidy  The Group has received capital grant in respect of interest subsidy on loans taken from OIDB.
The unamortized capital grant   amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 10.99 crore (2023: H 12.13 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised H 1.14 crore (2023:  H 1.38 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss as amortisation of capital grants.
8 Capital Grant in respect of Solar Power Generation  The Group has received capital financial assistance from Ministry of New and Renewable Energy in respect of procurement and  installation of Solar Panels for Power Generation.
The unamortized capital grant  amount as at March 31, 2024 is H 3.38 crore  (2023: H 3.59 crore).
During the year, the Group has recognised H 0.19 crore (2023: H 0.19 crore) in the Statement of Profit and Loss  as amortisation of capital grants.
9 Capital Grant from Nepal Government  The Group has received grant from Nepal Government by way of waiver of Local taxes on goods/services procured locally in Nepal  and Import Duty for goods/services imported into Nepal.
The Group has recognised H 1.14 crore (2023: H 1.14 crore)  in Statement  of Profit & Loss.
The unamortized balance is H 13.29 crore (2023: H 10.55 crore).
10 Capital Grant for establishing EV Charging Station (EVCS) at Retail Outlets  The Parent Company has received grant from Ministry of Heavy Industries for establishing EV Charging stations (EVCS) at ROs  under Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME) India Scheme Phase-II in March 2023.
Out of total sanctioned  amount of H 364.00 crore, H 254.80 crore is received in advance and balance amount will be received on commissioning of all EVCS  and limited to actual cost incurred.
Since the work has not started as on 31.03.2024, no amount is recognised in the statement of  Profit and loss during the year.
The unamortized balance as at March 31, 2024 is H 364.00 crore (2023: H 254.80 crore).
MHI has further sanctioned additional grant of H 25.28 crore vide letter dated 31.03.2024 for upgradation/deployment of existing  EV Chargers under phase II of FAME India Scheme.
Out of the sanctioned amount, H 17.69 crore has been received in April 2024  and balance amount will be received after assessment of actual cost incurred.
Since the work has not started as on 31.03.2024,  no amount is recognised in the statement of Profit and loss during the year.
The unamortized balance as at 31.03.2024 is H 25.28  crore (2023: NIL).
NOTE–44: REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS The Group is in the business of oil and gas and it earns revenue primarily from sale of petroleum products, petrochemicals, Gas, E&P  and Others.
Revenue is recognized when control of the goods and services is transferred to the customer.
Generally, Group enters into contract with customers:  a.
On delivered basis in case of Retail Sales, LPG and Aviation.
b.
On Ex-Marketing Installation as well as delivered basis in case of Lubes and Consumers.
c. On FOB or CIF basis depending on terms of contract in case of Export sales.
Majority of Group’s sales are to retail category which are mostly on cash and carry basis.
Company also execute supply to Institutional  Businesses(IB), Lubes , Aviation on credit which are for less than a year.
For maintaining uninterrupted supply of products, customers generally deposit amount in advance with the Group against which orders  for purchase of products are placed by the customers.
Based on these orders, supply is maintained by the Group and revenue is  recognized when the goods are delivered to the customer by adjusting the advance from customers.
Revenue in cases of performance  obligation related to delivered sales are recognized in time based on delivery of identified and actual goods and no significant  judgement is involved.
The Group also extends volume/slab based discounts to its customers on contract to contract basis for upliftment of products and it is  adjusted in revenue as per the terms of the contract.
Group also runs loyalty programmes and incentive schemes for its retail and bulk  customers.
Loyalty points are generated and accumulated by the customers on doing transactions at Company’s outlet which can be  redeemed subsequently for fuel purchases from Group outlets.
Revenue is recognized net of these loyalty points and incentive schemes.
Besides this, though not significant, the Group also undertakes construction contracts on deposit basis.
Revenue is recognized for  these contracts overtime using input based on cost incurred.
Similarly non-refundable deposits received from Retail Outlets (ROs) are  recognized as revenue over time on proportionate basis.
NOTE–44: REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS (Contd..) Bifurcation of Total Revenue into Revenue from contract with customers and other sources of revenue as per requirement  of Ind AS is given below: (J in crore) Particulars 2023-2024 2022-2023 Total Revenue (A+D)  8,81,235.45  9,51,409.94  Revenue from contract with customers (A)  8,79,365.25  9,41,676.06   Recognised from contract liability balance of previous year (B)  3,052.58  4,379.37   Recognised from contracts initiated in current year (C)  8,76,312.67  9,37,296.69  Revenue from other contracts/from others (D)  1,870.20  9,733.88  (J in crore) Particulars Receivables Contract Asset Contract Liability Opening Balance  16,398.69  -    6,512.81  Closing Balance  13,831.45  -    5,299.51  (J in crore) Sl.
No.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Name of the Subsidiary Chennai  Petroleum  Corporation  Limited IndianOil  (Mauritius)  Limited Lanka IOC  PLC IOC Middle  East FZE IOC  Sweden AB IOCL (USA)  Inc. IndOil  Global BV.
IOCL  Singapore  PTE Limited IOC Global  Capital  Management  IFSC Limited Date since when  subsidiary was acquired 29.03.2001 24.10.2001 29.08.2002 19.04.2006 26.02.2010 01.10.2012 25.02.2014 13.05.2016 17.05.2023 Reporting Currency INR MUR LKR AED EURO USD CAD USD USD Exchange Rate (INR): Closing Rate as on  31.03.2024 - 1.8036 0.2777 22.7070 89.7904 83.4100 61.2541 83.4100 83.4100 Average Rate 2023-2024 - 1.8415 0.2612 22.5451 89.8723 82.7993 61.4143 82.7993 82.7993 Share Capital 148.91 75.67 250.54 4.45 79.16 336.32 6,185.26 9,005.34 6.25 Other Equity 8,672.01 314.48 1,771.00 34.61 141.39 (146.25) (2,139.65) 402.91 (2.83) Liabilities 9,510.35 267.28 786.59 7.03 14.18 10.24 4,814.16 1,620.11 837.37 Total Liabilities 18,331.27 657.43 2,808.13 46.09 234.73 200.31 8,859.77 11,028.36 840.79 Total Assets 18,331.27 657.43 2,808.13 46.09 234.73 200.31 8,859.77 11,028.36 840.79 Investments 239.91 16.67 999.03 - 232.18 - 197.47 6,010.87 - Turnover 79,207.23 2,268.79 6,884.41 13.76 - 89.88 785.96 2,187.32 - Profit Before Taxation 3,693.69 38.12 526.49 (2.14) 2.69 46.75 (128.59) 1,059.78 (3.81) Provision for Taxation 948.62 6.14 81.14 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 307.09 (0.97) Profit After Taxation 2,745.07 31.98 445.35 (2.14) 2.69 46.75 (128.69) 752.69 (2.84) Proposed Dividend 819.01 0.40 - - - - - - - Percentage of  shareholding 51.89% 100.00% 75.12% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% An amount of H 15.31 crore (2023: H 126.10 crore) on account of impairment losses on receivables is recognised under the head  Impairment Loss on Financial Assets on the face of Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Group discloses information on reportable segment as per Ind AS 108 under Note 39 - Segmental Information.
An amount of   H 655.20 crore (2023: H 628.94 crore) is recognised over time under Revenue from contract with customers.
The Group has applied practical expedient as per IndAS 115 in case of delivered sales, advance from customers where the performance obligation  is part of the contract and the original expected duration is one year or less and in case of construction contracts/deposit works wherein the  Group has a right to consideration from customer that correspond directly with the value of the entity's performance completed for the customer.
NOTE  45: STATEMENT OF SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT  VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (FORM AOC - I) Part “A”: Subsidiaries Abbreviations:  INR  Indian Rupees MUR  Mauritian rupees LKR  Srilankan Rupees AED  United Arab Emirates Dirham USD  United States Dollars CAD  Canadian Dollars Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 418 419  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) 1 Name of the Associates / Joint Ventures IndianOil  Adani  Ventures  Limited Lubrizol  India Private  Limited Indian Oil  Petronas  Private  Limited Green Gas  Limited Indian Oil  Skytanking  Private  Limited Suntera  Nigeria 205  Limited Delhi Aviation  Fuel Facility  Private  Limited Indian  Synthetic  Rubber Private  Limited NPCIL -  IndianOil  Nuclear Energy  Corporation  Limited GSPL India  Transco  Limited GSPL India  Gasnet  Limited Indradhanush  Gas Grid  Limited IndianOil  Total Private  Limited 2 Latest Audited Balance Sheet Date 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.12.2021 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 31.03.2023 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 3 Date of which Associate or Joint Venture was  associated or acquired 28.08.1996 01.04.2000 03.12.1998 07.10.2005 21.08.2006 09.05.2006 28.03.2010 06.07.2010 06.04.2011 29.03.2013 29.03.2013 10.08.2018 07.10.2020 4 Shares of Associate / Joint Ventures held by the  company on the year end i.
No.
500972175 499200 134000000 25287250 25950000 2500000 60680000 222861375 260000 157820000 574925012 222360000 30000000 ii.
Amount of Investment in Associates / Joint  Venture 739.96 61.71 134.00 51.09 73.28 0.05 60.68 222.86 0.26 157.82 574.93 228.96 30.00 iii.
Extent of Holding % 50.00% 26.00% 50.00% 49.99% 50.00% 25.00% 37.00% 50.00% 26.00% 26.00% 26.00% 20.00% 50.00% 5 Description of how there is significant influence Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control 6 Reason why the associate/joint venture is not  consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated 7 Networth attributable to Shareholding as per  latest audited Balance Sheet 875.52 208.79 849.00 314.37 125.88  (225.59) 88.73 456.49 0.41 84.16 505.54 225.54 34.78 8 Profit / (Loss) for the year (After Tax) 66.42 167.02 326.04 43.53 58.86 0.00 (1.17) 198.41 0.07 (15.20) (139.28) 0.28 9.45 i.
Considered in Consolidation 33.21 43.43 163.02 21.76 29.43 0.00 (0.43) 99.21 0.02 (3.95) (36.21) 0.06 4.72 ii.
Not Considered in Consolidation 33.21 123.59 163.02 21.77 29.43 0.00 (0.74) 99.20 0.05 (11.25) (103.07) 0.22 4.73 NOTE  45: STATEMENT OF SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT  VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (FORM AOC - I) (Contd..) Part - "B" : Joint Ventures and Associates (J in crore) 1 Name of the Associates / Joint Ventures IndianOil  Adani Gas  Private  Limited Mumbai  Aviation Fuel  Farm Facility  Private  Limited Kochi Salem  Pipeline  Private  Limited Indian Oil  LNG Private  Limited # Hindustan  Urvarak and  Rasayan  Limited Ratnagiri Refinery  & Petrochemicals  Limited IHB Limited IOC Phinergy  Private Limited Paradeep  Plastic Park  Limited Cauvery Basin  Refinery and  Petrochemicals  Limited IndianOil NTPC  Green Energy  Private Limited GH4India Private  Limited 2 Latest Audited Balance Sheet Date 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 31.03.2024 NA 31.03.2024 3 Date of which Associate or Joint Venture was  associated or acquired 04.10.2013 09.10.2014 22.01.2015 29.05.2015 15.06.2016 22.09.2017 09.07.2019 19.02.2021 09.03.2021 06.01.2023 02.06.2023 25.08.2023 4 Shares of Associate / Joint Ventures held by the  company on the year end i.
No.
658865000 52918750 560640000 4500 2642985000 100000000 1529000000 4187500 32720000 12500 50000 1000000 ii.
Amount of Investment in Associates / Joint  Venture 658.87 52.92 560.64 0.00 2642.99 100.00 1529.00 4.19 32.72 0.01 0.05 1.00 iii.
Extent of Holding % 50.00% 25.00% 50.00% 45.00% 29.67% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 49.00% 25.00% 50.00% 33.33% 5 Description of how there is significant influence Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control Joint Control 6 Reason why the associate/joint venture is not  consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated 7 Networth attributable to Shareholding as per  latest audited Balance Sheet 694.44 107.53 616.40 (589.96) 2866.35 53.49 1521.36 1.58 57.98 0.01 0.05 0.00 8 Profit / (Loss) for the year (After Tax) 44.50 63.41 (11.53) (963.88) 1324.49 (4.90) (8.13) (2.85) 1.07 (0.01) 0.00 (3.00) i.
Considered in Consolidation 22.25 15.85 (5.77) (433.75) 392.97 (2.45) (4.07) (1.42) 0.52 0.00 0.00 (1.00) ii.
Not Considered in Consolidation 22.25 47.56 (5.76) (530.13) 931.52 (2.45) (4.06) (1.43) 0.55 (0.01) 0.00 (2.00) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 420 421  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (J in crore) 1 Name of the Associates / Joint Ventures Avi-Oil India  Private Limited Petronet VK  Limited Petronet LNG  Limited Petronet India  Limited 2 Latest Audited Balance Sheet Date 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 31.03.2018 3 Date of which Associate or Joint Venture was associated  or acquired 04.11.1993 21.05.1998 02.04.1998 26.05.1997 4 Shares of Associate / Joint Ventures held by the company  on the year end i.
No.
4500000 50000000 187500000 18000000 ii.
Amount of Investment in Associates / Joint Venture 4.50 26.02 98.75 0.18 iii.
Extent of Holding % 25.00% 50.00% 12.50% 18.00% 5 Description of how there is significant influence Associate Associate Associate Associate 6 Reason why the associate/joint venture is not  consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated 7 Networth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited  Balance Sheet 24.77 0.00 2156.19 0.47 8 Profit / (Loss) for the year (After Tax) 14.44 0.00 3476.74 0.00 i.
Considered in Consolidation 3.61 0.00 434.59 0.00 ii.
Not Considered in Consolidation 10.83 0.00 3042.15 0.00 NOTE  45: STATEMENT OF SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT  VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (FORM AOC - I) (Contd..) # Value of Investment in Indian Oil LNG Private Limited is ₹45000.
Following associates or joint ventures are yet to commence operations: i) NPCIL - IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited ii) Ratnagiri Refinery and Petro-chemicals Limited iii) Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited iv) IHB Limited v) IOC Phinergy Private Limited vi) Paradeep Plastic Park Limited vii) Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited viii) IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited ix) GH4 India Private Limited Equity Consolidation in respect of following Jointly Controlled Entities have not been consolidated as the Management has decided to  exit from these companies and provided for full diminution in the value of investment: i) Petronet CI Limited ii) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP NOTE - 46: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS PER SCHEDULE - III  TO COMPANIES ACT , 2013 Name of the entity Net Assets Share in Profit/ (loss)  after Tax Share in Other  Comprehensive Income Share in Total  Comprehensive Income As % of  Total Amount  (J in crore) As % of  Total Amount  (J in crore) As % of  Total Amount  (J in crore) As % of  Total Amount  (J in crore) Indian Oil Corporation Limited 96.35%  1,76,714.98 94.94%  39,618.84 102.90%  13,356.22 96.83%  52,975.06  Subsidiaries: Indian Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited 4.81%  8,820.92 6.58%  2,745.07 0.02%  2.83 5.02%  2,747.90  Foreign IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited 0.21%  390.15 0.08%  31.98 (0.02%)  (2.72) 0.05%  29.26  Lanka IOC PLC 1.10%  2,021.54 1.07%  445.35 0.84%  109.63 1.01%  554.98  IOC Middle East FZE 0.02%  39.06 (0.01%)  (2.14) 0.00%  0.59 0.00%  (1.55) IOC Sweden AB 0.12%  220.55 0.01%  2.69 0.45%  58.54 0.11%  61.23  IOCL (USA) Inc. 0.10%  190.07 0.11%  46.75 0.02%  2.46 0.09%  49.21  IndOil Global BV.
2.21%  4,045.61 (0.31%)  (128.69) 0.39%  50.88 (0.14%)  (77.81) IOCL Singapore PTE Limited 5.13%  9,408.25 1.80%  752.69 (4.98%)  (645.77) 0.20%  106.92  IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited 0.00%  3.42 (0.01%)  (2.84) 0.00%  0.01 (0.01%)  (2.83) Less: Minority Interests in all subsidiaries 2.59%  4,746.71 3.43%  1,431.46 0.22%  28.64 2.67%  1,460.10  Joint Ventures: Indian IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited 0.48%  875.52 0.08%  33.21 0.57%  73.78 0.20%  106.99  Lubrizol India Private Limited 0.11%  208.79 0.10%  43.43 0.00%  0.35 0.08%  43.78  Indian Oil Petronas Private Limited 0.46%  849.00 0.39%  163.02 0.00%  -   0.30%  163.02  Green Gas Limited 0.16%  288.59 0.05%  21.76 0.00%  -   0.04%  21.76  Indian Oil Skytanking Private Limited 0.07%  125.88 0.07%  29.43 0.00%  (0.10) 0.05%  29.33  Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited 0.05%  88.73 0.00%  (0.43) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (0.43) Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited 0.25%  456.49 0.24%  99.21 0.00%  0.33 0.18%  99.54  Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    NPCIL - IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited 0.00%  0.41 0.00%  0.02 0.00%  -   0.00%  0.02  GSPL India Transco Limited 0.05%  84.16 (0.01%)  (3.95) 0.00%  (0.06) (0.01%)  (4.01) GSPL India Gasnet Limited 0.28%  505.54 (0.09%)  (36.21) 0.00%  (0.14) (0.07%)  (36.35) IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited 0.37%  684.94 0.05%  22.25 0.00%  (0.09) 0.04%  22.16  Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited 0.06%  107.53 0.04%  15.85 0.00%  -   0.03%  15.85  Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited 0.29%  539.42 (0.01%)  (5.77) 0.00%  -   (0.01%)  (5.77) IndianOil LNG Private Limited (0.32%)  (589.96) (1.04%)  (433.75) 0.00%  -   (0.79%)  (433.75) Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited 1.64%  3,009.94 0.94%  392.97 0.00%  0.05 0.72%  393.02  Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited 0.03%  53.49 (0.01%)  (2.45) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (2.45) Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited 0.12%  225.54 0.00%  0.06 0.00%  -   0.00%  0.06  IHB Limited 0.83%  1,521.36 ( 0.01%)  (4.07) 0.00%  -   (0.01%)  (4.07) IndianOil Total Private Limited 0.02%  34.78 0.01%  4.72 0.00%  (0.01) 0.01%  4.71  IOC Phinergy Private Limited 0.00%  1.58 0.00%  (1.42) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (1.42) Paradeep Plastic Park Limited 0.03%  57.98 0.00%  0.52 0.00%  -   0.00%  0.52  Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited 0.00%  0.01 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited 0.00%  0.05 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    GH4India Private Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  (1.00) 0.00%  -   0.00%  (1.00) Foreign Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited (0.12%)  (225.59) 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Associates: Indian Avi-Oil India Private Limited 0.01%  24.77 0.01%  3.61 0.00%  -   0.01%  3.61  Petronet VK Limited 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Petronet LNG Limited 1.18%  2,156.19 1.04%  434.59 0.01%  1.03 0.80%  435.62  Petronet India Limited 0.00%  0.47 0.00%  -   0.00%  -   0.00%  -    Intra Group Eliminations (13.51%)  (24,777.18) (2.69%)  (1,124.14) 0.00%  0.20 (2.05%)  (1,123.94) TOTAL 100.00%  1,83,416.27 100.00%  41,729.69 100.00%  12,979.36 100.00%  54,709.05  Notes:         1.
Figures in respect of Joint Operations as mentioned in Note 34 have been included in the financial statements of Indian Oil  Corporation Ltd & Subsidiary Companies and in respect of other Joint Ventures/Associates of Subsidiary Companies, the same  has been included in the financial statements of respective subsidiary company.
2.
Following Companies have not been consolidated in the consolidated financial statements as the Management has decided to exit  from these Entities and provided for full diminution in value of investment:  a) Petronet CI Limited  b) Indian Oil Ruchi Biofuels LLP 3.
Group's share of loss in Petronet VK Limited amounting to H 6.27 crore (2023: loss of H 4.49 crore) has not been recognised as the  company has accumulated losses as on 31.03.2024.
The Group's share of unaccounted accumulated losses as on 31 st March  2024 stands at H 71.18 crore (2023: H 64.91 crore).
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 422 423  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–47: SCHEDULE III ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION Relationship with Struck off Companies Amount in J Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions with struck  off company Balance outstanding  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 3I Computers Private Limited Payables  11,300.00  11,300.00  A P Construction Private Limited Payables  1,25,644.33  -    Adiansh Engineers Private Limited Payables  -    4,737.00  Aditya Inkjet Technologies Private Limited Payables  1,892.39  1,892.39  Alliance Aviation Private Limited Payables  -    -    Amstar Infrastructure India Private Limited Payables  1,689.85  1,689.85  Anurag Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Aoa Energy International Private Limited Payables  52,900.00  52,900.00  Argus Media Payables  -    -    ASPEN Technology Inc. Payables  8,26,280.53  -    Atlas Plastic Private Limited Payables  -    -    Bharati Instrumentation Private Limited Payables  52.00  52.00  Bombay Studios Private limited Payables  11,966.00  1,07,516.00  BRM Petrochem Private Limited Payables  -    -    Cape Valour Services Private Limited Payables  31,81,569.46  31,81,569.16  Chauhan Transport Private Limited Payables  1,81,296.27  1,81,296.27  CIG Softtech India Limited Payables  (40,500.00)  (40,500.00) Creative Consortium Private Limited Payables  -    -    Dashmesh Transport Co Private Limited Payables  9,84,240.14  -    Decent Services Private Limited Payables  -    -    Delhi Public School Private Limited Payables  15,83,480.59  79,03,665.00  Deva Enterprises Limited Payables  -    -    Diaprix Web Solution Private Limited Payables  22,118.00  22,118.00  DLS Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Elite Octane Motoring Private Limited Payables  (30,510.00)  -    Ensival Moret India Private Limited Payables  2,000.00  2,000.00  Fame Enterprises Private Limited Payables  1,88,117.00  86,425.00  First Office Solutions India Private Limited Payables  14,100.00  14,100.00  Gmplus Engineering Private Limited Payables  -    -    Gopal Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Grand Marshall Engineers Private Limited Payables  12,537.00  12,537.00  Gupta Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Heritage Tours And Travels Private Limited Payables  -    -    Hotel Dynasty Private Limited Payables  7,680.00  7,680.00  Ideal Logistics Private Limited Payables  9,78,073.79  -    Informatics E-Tech (India) Limited Payables  15,139.16  12,789.98  Jay Kay Motors Private Limited Payables  -    672.00  Kamal Electrical Private Limited Payables  45,42,128.97  13,12,865.08  Kamrupinyae Infrastructures Private Limited Payables  (6,57,101.43)  (6,57,101.43) Kanti Enterprises Private Limited Payables  (3,402.00)  -    Kashvi Industries Private Limited Payables  -    -    KDC Infra Projects Private Limited Payables  -    -    Kingpin Infratech Private Limited Payables  -    15,056.00  Krishna Sales Private Limited Payables  1,30,620.24  1,25,955.90  Krithi Apparels Private Limited Payables  -    -    Linear Point Surveys Private Limited Payables  (1,440.00)  (1,440.00) M.P .
Marketing Private Limited Payables  -    -    Maurya Software Private Limited Payables  -    -    Maxtel India Private Limited Payables  6,054.79  23,624.15  Microsys Technoware Solutions Private Limited Payables  (6,078.24)  -    Murthy Electronics Private Limited Payables  2,541.44  2,541.44  Nalanda Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    Neelam Private Limited Payables  -    -    Neha Enterprises Private Limited Payables  39,964.00  -    P .K Graphics Private Limited Payables  -    -    Pacific Laboratories Private Limited Payables  -    -    Padavi Engineers & Pressure Vessels Private Limited Payables  34,545.00  34,545.00  Paonta Technologies & Solutions Private Limited Payables  5,520.00  5,520.00  Parihat Ventures Private Limited Payables  -    -    Phoenix Marketing Private Limited Payables  -    -    Prabhat Associates Private Limited Payables  -    -    Amount in J Name of the struck off company Nature of transactions with struck  off company Balance outstanding  March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Pranay Enterprise Private Limited Payables  10,799.64  -    Priya Plastics Private Limited Payables  -    -    Raj Communication Private Limited Payables  -    -    Raj Services Private Limited Payables  -    -    Ramdev Enterprise Private Limited Payables  -    -    RBC Bearings Private Limited Payables  -    -    RGM Signs & Displays Private Limited Payables  -    38,029.00  Risknowlogy Solutions Private Limited Payables  6,900.00  6,900.00  Rudransh Enterprises Private Limited Payables  9,477.00  -    S H Enterprises India Private Limited Payables  -    -    S R Lab Instruments India Private Limited Payables  4,931.37  -    S. S. Constructions Private Limited Payables  2,08,349.12  1,38,436.06  S.S. Trading Company Private Limited Payables  -    -    Sai Associates Private Limited Payables  (5,000.40)  -    Sandhu Transport Co Private Limited Payables  7,85,376.54  -    Shree Sai Ip Consultant Private Limited Payables  1,63,720.00  -    Shree Salasar Rent A Car Private Limited Payables  35,871.00  35,871.00  Shubhgayatri Ventures(Opc) Private Limited Payables  6,22,654.99  4,86,365.00  Sirius Transtech Private Limited Payables  28,570.00  28,570.00  Siya Enterprises Private Limited Payables  -    -    SKPEI Engineering Works Private Limited Payables  (657.27)  (657.27) Social Buzz Technologies Private Limited Payables  -    -    Spacescape Design Consultants Private Limited Payables  1,08,550.00  1,08,550.00  Spectacular Advertising & Events Private Limited Payables  10,931.00  10,931.00  Techtrix Controls Chennai Private Limited Payables  7,314.48  2,01,143.07  The Royal Park Hotel Private Limited Payables  18,017.20  24,159.70  Trishul & Om Construction Private Limited Payables  60,000.00  -    Unique Energies Private Limited Payables  -    8,175.00  Upavan Restaurant Private Limited Payables  19,52,123.76  19,72,038.73  V.K Traders Private Limited Payables  -    -    Valase Roadlines Private Limited Payables  9,58,948.63  -    Verma Associates Private Limited Payables  -    -    Vidhoo Industrial Service Private Limited Payables  2,107.00  2,107.00  Waaree Mm Petro Tech Private Limited Payables  2,21,798.00  2,74,634.00  Aprajeeta Infra Developers Private Limited Receivables  1,395.00  1,395.00  Arch Triad Consultants Private Limited Receivables  (23,854.24)  -    Birendra Nag Construction Private Limited Receivables  900.00  900.00  Dharamveer Construction & Infra Private Limited Receivables  6,331.70  12,072.90  Idha E Tail Arks Private Limited Receivables  (65.00)  (65.00) Khazina Digital Private Limited Receivables  3,00,000.00  5,07,000.00  Palimar Foods Private Limited Receivables  (20,674.34)  -    Rudra Parwati Engineering Private Limited Receivables  2,523.00  2,523.00  Salai Energy Solutions Private Limited Receivables  4,36,510.98  4,23,766.98  Singh Brothers Construction Private Limited Receivables  -    1,111.00  Technopal Polychem Private Limited Receivables  -    -    The Barnagore Jute Factory Company Limited Receivables  2,48,051.24  1,56,999.00  The National Sugar Mills Limited Receivables  38,641.16  92,621.16  Yumiko Global Infratech Private Limited Receivables  5,000.00  5,000.00  NOTE–47: SCHEDULE III ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (Contd..) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 424 425  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE–47: SCHEDULE III ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION (Contd..) Details of Struck-off investors holding equity shares in the Holding Company: Details of Struck-off investors holding equity shares in the Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (A Subsidiary): Name of the struck off company March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 No.
of shares  held Paid up Share  Capital (In J) No.
of shares  held Paid up Share  Capital (In J) Aakil Leasing Limited                                           120  1,200.00 120  1,200.00  Haresh Extrusion Company Private Limited                    1188  11,880.00 1188  11,880.00  Hermoine Financial Solutions Private Limited                600  6,000.00 600  6,000.00  JSK Finvest Private Limited                                       648  6,480.00 648  6,480.00  Kothari Intergroup Limited                                     42  420.00 42  420.00  Market Probe India Private Limited                          30  300.00 30  300.00  Raghukul Shares India Private Limited                               3  30.00 3  30.00  Name of the struck off company March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 No.
of shares  held Paid up Share  Capital (In J) No.
of shares  held Paid up Share  Capital (In J) Ingram Investments Private Limited                     2000  20,000.00 -  -    Unickon Fincap Private Limited              1278  12,780.00 1250  12,500.00  Systems Solutions Private Limited 100  1,000.00 -  -    Note: The Group does not have any relationship with the above mentioned struck-off companies.
NOTE–48: OTHER DISCLOSURES 1 In order to provide clean cooking fuel to BPL families, Government has approved “Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY)” scheme  where free LPG connections are issued by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to the women belonging to the Below Poverty Line  (BPL) households as per SECC -2011 (Rural) database.
The scheme was launched on May 1, 2016.
As per the scheme, the initial  cost towards connection charges (Refundable deposit) would be borne by the Central Government for each card holder.
Few State  Governments have also extended this scheme to other beneficiaries.
As per the scheme, OMCs would provide an option for EMI/ Loans towards cost of burner and 1st refill to the PMUY consumers.
The loan amount is to be recovered from the subsidy amount  payable by the government to the customers on each refill sale.
During the year, discounting of the loan has been done based on  assumption of average refills in a year and average subsidy rate per cylinder under respective range of subsidy buckets.
The amount outstanding as at March 31, 2024 towards PMUY claim from Central Government is H 279.69 crore (2023: H 46.30  crore) and loan to PMUY consumers is H 2367.12 crore (2023: H 2567.27 crore) (net of recovery through subsidy).
Against the  above loan, a provision for doubtful  loans amounting to H 1159.40 crore (2023: H 766.38 crore) has been created as at March 31,  2024 against the beneficiaries who have not taken any refill for more than 6 months (2023: 12 months)  based on expected credit  loss(ECL) model and applying experience factor based on experience ratio of doubtful provision on more than 6 months (2023: 12  months) to the loans in less than 6 months (2023: 12 months) category.
(Also refer Credit Risk under Note 40)  The Company has remeasured the gross carrying amount of PMUY loan as at Balance Sheet date based on revised estimated  future contractual cash flows resulting in addition in PMUY loans by H 336.61 crore (2023: Reduction by H 41.51 crore) which has  been accounted in Statement of Profit and Loss in NOTE -24 under the head " Other Income  (2023: Note - 29.1 under the head "  Amortisation and Remeasurement of PMUY Assets")".
2 The Purchases of Stock-in-Trade during the year includes provision for “Pay for, if not used obligation” (UoP) under regasification  agreement with Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) amounting to H 188.96 crore as the company was not able to utilise the committed  capacity booked for contract year 2023.
A similar provision of H 227.08 crore was made in 2022-23 for contract year 2022 and  recently PLL has agreed to allow the Parent Company to use the unutilised quantities of contract year 2022 till the end of contract  year 2025 and to waive UoP charges to the extent of usage.
3 A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) entered between the Parent Company and the Government of India, setting various  performance parameters for the Parent Company including capital expenditure (Capex) by the group.
In this regard, the amount of  Capex on major capital projects and creation of additional facilities by the Parent Company, subsidiary and its proportionate share  of similar Capex by its  Joint Ventures and Associates during the financial year 2023-24 are given below: NOTE–48: OTHER DISCLOSURES (Contd..) (J in crore) Name of the Company/ Subsidiary Total Capex IOCL Share (%) IOCL Share Indian Oil Corporation Limited  41,524.33  41,524.33  Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  611.15 51.89%  317.13  Indian Oil (Mauritius) Limited  10.69 100.00%  10.69  Lanka IOC PLC  37.91 75.12%  28.48  IOC Middle East FZE  0.07 100.00%  0.07  IOCL (USA) Inc  63.60 100.00%  63.60  IndOil Global BV  1,219.82 100.00%  1,219.82  IOC Singapore Pte Limited  589.64 100.00%  589.64  IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited  3.56 100.00%  3.56  Proportionate Capex by Joint Ventures & Associates listed in Note 33B  1,936.90  1,936.90  Total Capex by IOCL and its Subsidiaries and proportionate share of  Joint Ventures & Associates  45,997.67  45,694.22  4 Purchase of crude oil from Bombay High, Panna Mukta and some other small oilfields has been accounted for provisionally  pending finalisation of agreements with respective parties.
The management estimates that no significant adjustments will arise  upon finalisation of these agreements.
5 There are no other significant subsequent events that would require adjustments or disclosures in the Financial Statements as at  Balance Sheet date, other than those disclosed above.
6 Previous year's comparative figures have been regrouped wherever necessary.
Figures in brackets indicate deductions/losses.
For and on Behalf of Board of Directors  Sd/-  Sd/- Sd/-  S. M. Vaidya Anuj Jain Kamal Kumar Gwalani  Chairman Director (Finance) Company Secretary  DIN- 06995642 DIN-10310088 ACS-13737 As per our attached Report of even date  For KHANDELWAL JAIN & CO. For K G SOMANI & CO LLP For S R B  & ASSOCIATES For KOMANDOOR & CO LLP  Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants  Firm Regn.
No.
105049W Firm Regn.
No.
006591N/  Firm Regn.
No.
310009E Firm Regn.
No.
001420S/   N500377  S200034  Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Sd/-  Naveen Jain Amber Jaiswal Rajib Sekhar Sahoo Komandoor Mohan Acharya  Partner Partner Partner Partner  M. No.
511596 M. No.
550715 M. No.
053960 M. No.
029082 Place: New Delhi  Dated: 30th April 2024 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 426 427  COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER SECTION 143(6)(b) OF THE  COMPANIES ACT , 2013 ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED FOR THE  YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER SECTION 143(6)(b) READ WITH  SECTION 129(4) OF THE COMPANIES ACT , 2013 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INDIAN  OIL CORPORATION LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 The preparation of financial statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 in accordance with the  financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the management of the company.
The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under section 139(5) of the Act is responsible for  expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 of the Act based on independent audit in accordance with the  standards on auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act.
This is stated to have been done by them vide their Audit Report  dated 30 April 2024.
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the financial statements of Indian  Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 under Section 143(6)(a) of the Act.
This supplementary audit has been carried  out independently without access to the working papers of the statutory auditor and is limited primarily to inquiries of the statutory  auditors and company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records.
On the basis of my supplementary audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any comment upon or  supplement to statutory auditor's report under section 143(6)(b) of the Act.
The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 in accordance  with the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the management of the  company.
The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under section 139(5) read with section  129(4) of the Act are responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 read with section 129(4) of the  Act based on independent audit in accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act.
This is stated  to have been done by them vide their Audit Report dated 30 April 2024.
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the consolidated financial  statements of Indian Oil Corporation Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 under section 143(6)(a) read with section 129(4)  of the Act.
We conducted a supplementary audit of the financial statements of companies mentioned in Annexure A, but did not  conduct supplementary audit of the financial statements of the companies mentioned in Annexure B for the year ended on that date.
Further, Section 139(5) and 143(6)(a) of the Act are not applicable to the companies mentioned in Annexure C being private entities/  entities incorporated in foreign countries under the respective laws for appointment of their statutory auditors and for conduct of  supplementary audit.
Accordingly, Comptroller and Auditor General of India has neither appointed the Statutory Auditors nor conducted  the supplementary audit of these companies.
This supplementary audit has been carried out independently without access to the  working papers of the statutory auditors and is limited primarily to inquiries of the statutory auditors and company personnel and a  selective examination of some of the accounting records.
On the basis of my supplementary audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge which would give rise to any comment upon or  supplement to statutory auditors' report under section 143(6)(b) of the Act.
For and on behalf of the  Comptroller & Auditor General of India Sd/- Place: New Delhi (S. Ahlladini Panda) Dated: 17 July 2024 Director General of Audit (Energy)  For and on behalf of the  Comptroller & Auditor General of India Sd/- Place: New Delhi (S. Ahlladini Panda) Dated: 17 July 2024 Director General of Audit (Energy) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 CORPORATE OVERVIEW STATUTORY REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 428 429  Name of the Company/ Subsidiaries/ JVs/ Associate Companies of which supplementary audit has been  conducted by this office: Name of the Company/ Subsidiaries/ JVs/ Associate Companies of which supplementary audit has not been  conducted by this office: (i) List of all Subsidiaries/ JVs/ Associate Companies to which Section 139(5) and 143(6)(a) of Companies Act  are not applicable (ii) Entities incorporated outside India Annexure A Annexure B Annexure C Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/ Subsidiary Type of the Company 1 Indian Oil Corporation Limited Holding Company 2 IOC Global Capital Management IFSC Limited Subsidiary 3 Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited Subsidiary 4 Mumbai Aviation Fuel Farm Facility Private Limited Joint Venture 5 Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited Joint Venture 6 Ratnagiri Refineries & Petrochemicals Limited Joint Venture 7 GSPL India Transco Limited Joint Venture 8 GSPL India Gasnet Limited Joint Venture 9 IHB Limited Joint Venture 10 Kochi Salem Pipeline Private Limited Joint Venture Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/ Subsidiary Type of the Company 1 NPCIL - IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited Joint Venture 2 Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Private Limited Joint Venture 3 IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited Joint Venture 4 Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited Joint Venture 5 Green Gas Limited Joint Venture 6 Paradeep Plastic Park Limited Joint Venture 7 Petronet VK Limited Associate Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/Subsidiary Type of the Company 1 Petronet LNG Limited Associate Company 2 IndianOil Adani Ventures Limited Joint Venture 3 IndianOil Petronas Private Limited Joint Venture 4 Lubrizol India Private Limited Joint Venture 5 Avi-Oil India Private Limited Associate Company 6 IndianOil Skytanking Private Limited Joint Venture 7 Indian Synthetic Rubber Private Limited Joint Venture 8 IndianOil Adani Gas Private Limited Joint Venture 9 IndianOil LNG Private Limited Joint Venture 10 IndianOil Total Private Limited Joint Venture 11 IOC Phinergy Private Limited Joint Venture 12 Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited Joint Venture 13 GH4India Private Limited Joint Venture 14 Petronet India Limited Associate Sl.
No.
Name of the Joint Venture/Subsidiary Type of the Company 1 IndianOil (Mauritius) Limited Subsidiary 2 Lanka IOC PLC Subsidiary 3 IOC Middle East FZE Subsidiary 4 IOC Sweden AB Subsidiary 5 IOCL (USA) Inc. Subsidiary 6 IndOil Global B.V. Subsidiary 7 IOCL Singapore Pte Limited Subsidiary 8 Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Joint Venture Indian Oil Corporation Limited [CIN – L23201MH1959GOI011388] Regd.
Office: ‘IndianOil Bhavan’, G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400051 Tel: 022-26447327, Email Id: investors@indianoil.in, Website: www.iocl.com NOTICE NOTICE is hereby given that the 65 th Annual General Meeting  (“AGM”) of the members of Indian Oil Corporation Limited  (“IndianOil” / “Company”) will be held on Friday, August 09, 2024  at 10:00 AM (IST) through Video Conference / Other Audio-Visual  Means (“VC/OAVM”) to transact the business mentioned below.
The proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at  the Registered Office of the Company at IndianOil Bhavan, G-9, Ali  Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400051.
ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone as  well as Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company  for the year ended March 31, 2024 together with Reports of  the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2.
To declare the Final Dividend of H 7/- per equity share for the  year 2023-2024.
3.
To appoint a Director in place of Shri Sujoy Choudhury  (DIN - 09503285) who retires by rotation and is eligible  for reappointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 4.
Appointment of Shri Anuj Jain (DIN - 10310088) as  Director (Finance) of the Company.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section  152 and 161(1) read with Schedule IV and other applicable  provisions if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), and rules  notified thereunder (including any statutory modification or  re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), Regulation  17 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations) and other applicable  provisions of Listing Regulations and Articles of Association  of the Company, Shri Anuj Jain (DIN - 10310088) who was  appointed as an Additional Director and designated as  Director (Finance) by the Board of Directors w.e.f.
09.10.2023  and in respect of whom, the Company has received a notice  in writing from a member under section 160 of the Act, be and  is hereby appointed as Director (Finance) of the Company,  liable to retire by rotation.” 5.
Appointment of Shri Alok Sharma (DIN - 10453982) as  Director (Research & Development) of the Company.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section  152 and 161(1) read with Schedule IV and other applicable  provisions if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”),  and rules notified thereunder (including any statutory  modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being  in force), Regulation 17 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing  Regulations) and other applicable provisions of Listing  Regulations and Articles of Association of the Company,  Shri Alok Sharma (DIN - 10453982) who was appointed as  an Additional Director and designated as Director (Research  & Development) by the Board of Directors w.e.f.
16.01.2024  and in respect of whom, the Company has received a  notice in writing from a member under section 160 of the  Act, be and is hereby appointed as Director (Research &  Development) of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.” 6.
Appointment of Ms Rashmi Govil (DIN - 10531397) as  Director (Human Resources) of the Company.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section  152 and 161(1) read with Schedule IV and other applicable  provisions if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”),  and rules notified thereunder (including any statutory  modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being  in force), Regulation 17 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing  Regulations) and other applicable provisions of Listing  Regulations and Articles of Association of the Company,  Ms Rashmi Govil (DIN - 10531397) who was appointed as  an Additional Director and designated as Director (Human  Resources) by the Board of Directors w.e.f.
15.03.2024 and  in respect of whom, the Company has received a notice in  writing from a member under section 160 of the Act, be and  is hereby appointed as Director (Human Resources) of the  Company, liable to retire by rotation.” 7.
Appointment of Shri Arvind Kumar (DIN - 09224177) as  Director (Refineries) of the Company.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, the following  resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section  152 and 161(1) read with Schedule IV and other applicable  provisions if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”),  and rules notified thereunder (including any statutory  modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being  AGM NOTICE 431 Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24430 enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality of  related party transactions and on dealing with related party  transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable, consent  of the members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of  Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which term  shall include any duly authorized Committee constituted /  empowered by the Board, from time to time, to exercise its  powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into individually  or taken together with previous transactions with Hindustan  Urvarak Rasayan Limited, a Joint Venture Company of  IndianOil, during financial year 2025-26, notwithstanding the  fact that all related party transactions during the year 2025- 26, may exceed H 1000 crore per year, subject to a limit of 10%  of the consolidated turnover of the Company of the preceding  financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 11.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  IHB Limited, a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil, for  the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality of  related party transactions and on dealing with related party  transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable, consent  of the members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of  Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which term  shall include any duly authorized Committee constituted  / empowered by the Board, from time to time, to exercise  its powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into  individually or taken together with previous transactions  with IHB Limited, a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil,  during financial year 2025-26, notwithstanding the fact  that all related party transactions during the year 2025-26  may exceed H 1000 crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the  consolidated turnover of the Company of the preceding  financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 12.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company  of IndianOil, for the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality of  related party transactions and on dealing with related party  transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable, consent  of the members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of  Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which term  shall include any duly authorized Committee constituted  / empowered by the Board, from time to time, to exercise  its powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into individually  or taken together with previous transactions with IndianOil  Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil,  during financial year 2025-26, notwithstanding the fact  that all related party transactions during the year 2025-26  may exceed H 1000 crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the  consolidated turnover of the Company of the preceding  financial year.”  RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  in force), Regulation 17 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing  Regulations) and other applicable provisions of Listing  Regulations and Articles of Association of the Company,   Shri Arvind Kumar (DIN - 09224177) who was appointed as an   Additional Director and designated as Director (Refineries)  by the Board of Directors w.e.f.
17.07.2024 and in respect of  whom, the Company has received a notice in writing from  a member under section 160 of the Act, be and is hereby  appointed as Director (Refineries) of the Company, liable to  retire by rotation.” 8.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Lanka IOC PLC, a Subsidiary Company of IndianOil, for  the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality  of related party transactions and on dealing with related  party transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable,  consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to  the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”,  which term shall include any duly constituted Committee  authorised by the Board, from time to time, to exercise its  powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into individually  or taken together with previous transactions with Lanka IOC  PLC, a subsidiary of IndianOil, during financial year 2025-26,  notwithstanding the fact that all related party transactions  during the year 2025-26 may exceed H 1000 crore per year,  subject to a limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover of the  Company of the preceding financial year”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 9.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited, a  Joint Venture Company of IndianOil, for the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality of  related party transactions and on dealing with related party  transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable, consent  of the members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of  Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which term  shall include any duly authorized Committee constituted  / empowered by the Board, from time to time, to exercise  its powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements/ transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into individually  or taken together with previous transactions with Cauvery  Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited, a Joint Venture  Company of IndianOil, during financial year 2025-26,  notwithstanding the fact that all related party transactions  during the year 2025-26 may exceed H 1000 crore, subject to  a limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company  of the preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 10.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited, a Joint Venture  Company of IndianOil, for the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of   Regulation 23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or re- Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 432 433  related party transactions and on dealing with related party  transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable, consent  of the members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of  Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which term  shall include any duly authorized Committee constituted /  empowered by the Board, from time to time, to exercise its  powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into individually  or taken together with previous transactions with Petronet  LNG Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil, during  financial year 2025-26, notwithstanding the fact that all related  party transactions during the year 2025-26 may exceed  H 1000 crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the consolidated  turnover of the Company of the preceding financial year.”.
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.
16.
Approval for Material Related Party Transactions with  Falcon Oil & Gas B.V., Joint Venture of IndOil Global BV,  Netherlands (WOS of IndianOil) for the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality of  related party transactions and on dealing with related party  transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable, consent  of the members be and is hereby accorded to the Board of  Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which term  shall include any duly authorized Committee constituted  / empowered by the Board, from time to time, to exercise  its powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into individually  or taken together with previous transactions with Falcon  Oil & Gas B.V., a Joint Venture Company of IndOil Global  BV, Netherlands (WOS of IndianOil), during financial year  2025-26, notwithstanding the fact that all related party  transactions during the year 2025-26 may exceed H 1000  crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover  of the Company of the preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 17.
To ratify the remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the  Financial Year ending March 31, 2025.
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution  as an Ordinary Resolution:  “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148  and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 including  any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof, for the  time being in force, the aggregate remuneration of H 24.50  lakh plus applicable taxes and out-of-pocket expenses  payable to the Cost Auditors appointed by the Board of  Directors of the Company, to conduct the audit of the cost  records of the various units of the Company for the Financial  Year ending March 31, 2025, be and is hereby ratified.” Registered Office:  By Order of the Board of Directors IndianOil Bhavan,    G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Sd/- Bandra (East), (Kamal Kumar Gwalani) Mumbai - 400 051 Company Secretary Date: July 17, 2024 (ACS: 13737) and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 13.
Approval for material Related Party Transactions with  IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited, a Joint  Venture Company of IndianOil, for the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 23(4)  of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), other applicable laws,  and amendments, modifications or re-enactments thereof, if  any, and the policy on ‘Materiality of related party transactions  and on dealing with related party transactions’ of the Company,  as may be applicable, consent of the members be and is  hereby accorded to the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred  to as “Board”, which term shall include any duly authorized  Committee constituted / empowered by the Board, from time  to time, to exercise its powers conferred by this resolution), for  continuation(s) or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s)  of earlier arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and  independent transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered  into individually or taken together with previous transactions  with IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited, a Joint  Venture Company of IndianOil, during financial year 2025-26,  notwithstanding the fact that all related party transactions  during the year 2025-26 may exceed H 1000 crore, subject to a  limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company of the  preceding financial year.”  “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 14.
Approval for Material Related Party Transactions with  IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company  of IndianOil, for the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or  re-enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality  of related party transactions and on dealing with related  party transactions’ of the Company, as may be applicable,  consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to the  Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which  term shall include any duly authorized Committee constituted  / empowered by the Board, from time to time, to exercise  its powers conferred by this resolution), for continuation(s)  or extension(s) or renewal(s) or modification(s) of earlier  arrangements / transactions or as a fresh and independent  transaction(s) or otherwise, whether entered into individually  or taken together with previous transactions with IndianOil  Petronas Pvt.
Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of IndianOil, during  financial year 2025-26, notwithstanding the fact that all related  party transactions during the year 2025-26 may exceed H 1000  crore, subject to a limit of 10% of the consolidated turnover of  the Company of the preceding financial year.”.
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby  authorized to delegate all or any of its powers to any  Committee of Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s)  of the Company or to any other person(s) so authorized by it  and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, the Board  may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, including but  not limited to finalizing the terms and conditions, methods  and modes, finalizing and executing necessary documents,  including contracts, schemes, agreements and such other  papers, documents as may be required, filing any relevant  documents and making representations, seeking all  necessary approvals from relevant authorities, to give effect  to aforesaid resolution, for and on behalf of the Company  and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts,  whatsoever that may arise without being required to seek  further consent or approval of the members to the intent that  the members shall be deemed to have given their approval  thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.” 15.
Approval for Material Related Party Transactions  with Petronet LNG Ltd., a Joint Venture Company of  IndianOil, for the year 2025-26.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following  resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions:  “ RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Regulation  23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”),  other applicable laws, and amendments, modifications or re- enactments thereof, if any, and the policy on ‘Materiality of  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 434 435  of securities shall be affected only in dematerialised form.
In view thereof and to eliminate all risks associated with  physical shares, members holding shares in physical form  are requested to convert their holdings to dematerialized  form.
Members can contact the Company or the RTA for  assistance in this regard.
13.
In order to update KYC details, members are requested  to submit their PAN, KYC and nomination details in the  prescribed forms i.e.
ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3 or SH-13 to the  Company’s registrars KFin at the address mentioned at  point no.
11 above.
The forms for updating the same are  available at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/ default.aspx.
Members holding shares in electronic form are  requested to submit their PAN, KYC and nomination details  if any, to their depository participant(s).
14.
SEBI has established a common Online Dispute Resolution  Portal (“ODR Portal”) for resolution of disputes arising  in the Indian Securities.
After exhausting the option to  resolve their grievances with the RTA/ Company directly  and through existing SCORES platform, the investors can  initiate dispute resolution through the ODR Portal i.e.
https:// smartodr.in/login 15.
As per the provisions of Section 124(5) of the Act, the  dividend(s) which remains unpaid/unclaimed for a period  of 7 years is required to be transferred to the Investor  Education & Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the  Central Government at the end of the 7 th year.
Accordingly,  the Company has transferred all unpaid/unclaimed dividend  declared upto the financial year 2015-16 and unpaid/ unclaimed interim dividends for the year 2016-17 to IEPF on  the respective due dates.
Further, Section 124(6) of the Act provides that all shares  in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed  for seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred by  the Company to the demat account of IEPF authority.
The  Company had sent reminder letter to all such members,  whose dividend had remained unpaid/unclaimed for a  consecutive period of 7 years with a request to claim the  dividend, failing which the shares would be transferred to  the IEPF Authority on the due date.
Thereafter, such shares  were transferred to the demat account of the IEPF authority.
The details of such shares are hosted on the website of the  Company www.iocl.com.
It may please be noted that, upon completion of 7 years, the  Company would transfer the unpaid/unclaimed dividend  for the financial year 2016-17 (final dividend 2016-17) on or  before November 01, 2024.
Further, the shares in respect  of which dividend has remained unpaid/unclaimed for a  consecutive period of 7 years would also be transferred to  the demat account of IEPF authority on or before November  01, 2024.
The details of such unpaid/unclaimed dividend(s)  as well as shares liable to be transferred to the IEPF are  hosted on the website of the Company  www.iocl.com.
Section 125 of the Act provides that a member whose  dividend/shares have been transferred to the IEPF shall  be entitled to claim refund therefrom.
The procedure for  claiming the unpaid dividend and shares transferred to  the IEPF Authority is provided on the following link: http:// www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html .
To avoid transfer of unpaid dividends/equity shares, the  members are requested to write to the RTA at the address  mentioned above or to the Company for claiming the  unpaid/unclaimed dividend.
16.
Pursuant to Sections 101 and 136 of the Act read with  Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014  and Listing Regulations, the Annual Report of the Company  is required to be sent through email to those members  whose email address is registered and in physical form  to those members who have not registered their email  address.
However, in compliance with the circulars issued  by MCA as well as SEBI, the Notice of the AGM along with  the Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 is being sent only  through electronic mode to those members whose email  address is registered with the Company/ Depositories  unless any Member has requested for a physical copy of the  same.
Members may note that the Notice and Integrated  Annual Report 2023-24 are also available on the Company’s  website  www.iocl.com , website of the Stock Exchanges i.e.
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited  at www.bseindia.com   and www.nseindia.com respectively,  and on the website of National Securities Depository Limited  (“NSDL ”) https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
17.
Instructions for e-Voting and joining the AGM are  as under:  i.
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of the  Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management  and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended  from time to time, and Regulation 44 of the Listing  Regulations, the members are provided with the facility  to cast their vote electronically, through the e-Voting  services provided by NSDL, on all the resolutions set  forth in this Notice.
The instructions for e-Voting are  given herein below.
ii.
The cut-off date to be eligible to vote by electronic  means is Friday, August 2, 2024.  iii.
The voting rights of members shall be in proportion  to the shares held by them in the paid-up equity  share capital of the Company as on the cut-off date  i.e.
August 2, 2024.
A person who is not a member as  on the cut-off date is requested to treat this notice for  information only.
iv.
The remote e-Voting period would commence at 9:00  am (IST) on Monday, August 5, 2024 and shall end  at 5 pm (IST) on Thursday, August 8, 2024.
During  this period, members holding shares as on cut-off  date, may cast their vote electronically.
The e-Voting  module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter.
Those members, who intend to participate in the AGM  through VC/OAVM facility and could not cast their vote  on the resolutions through remote e-Voting and are  NOTES 1.
Pursuant to General Circular No.
14/2020 dated April 8,  2020, General Circular No.
17/2020 dated April 13, 2020,  General Circular No.
20/2020 dated May 5, 2020, and  General Circular No.09/2023 dated September 25, 2023  issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Circular  Nos.
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12,  2020, and SEBI/HO/DDHS/P/CIR/2023/0164 dated October  6, 2023 issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (“SEBI”) hereinafter collectively referred to as “the Circulars”,  companies are allowed to hold AGM through VC/OAVM,  without the physical presence of members at a common  venue.
Hence, in compliance with the Circulars, the AGM of  the Company is being held through VC/OAVM.
2.
Participation of members through VC/OAVM will be  reckoned for the purpose of quorum for the AGM.
3.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled  to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf  and the proxy need not be a member of the Company.
However, MCA while granting the relaxations to hold the  AGM through VC/OAVM has also provided exemption from  the requirement of appointing proxies.
Hence for this AGM  the facility for appointment of proxy by the members is not  being provided.
Accordingly, the proxy form, attendance slip  and the route map of the venue have not been provided along  with the notice.
The members are requested to participate in  the AGM through VC/OAVM from their respective location.
4.
In compliance with Regulation 44 of Listing Regulations,  the top 100 Listed Companies, as per market capitalization,  are required to provide the facility of Live Webcast of the  proceedings of the General Meeting.
Since this AGM is being  conducted through VC/OAVM, the requirement of webcast  under Listing Regulations is being complied with.
5.
Institutional/Corporate Members are required to send a  scanned copy (PDF/JPG format) of its Board or Governing  Body Resolution/Authorization etc., authorizing its  representative to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM on  its behalf and to vote through remote e-Voting.
The said  Resolution/Authorization should be sent to the Scrutinizer  by email from the registered email address of the member  to scrutinizer@dholakia-associates.com with a copy  marked to evoting@nsdl.com .
They can also upload the  Board Resolution/Power of Attorney/Authority Letter etc.
by clicking on "Upload Board Resolution/Authority Letter"  displayed under "e-Voting" tab in their login page.
6.
A statement setting out the material facts pursuant to Section  102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules notified  thereunder (“the Act”), relating to the Special Business to be  transacted at the AGM is annexed hereto.
The relevant details,  pursuant to Regulations 36(3) of the Listing Regulations  and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings issued by  the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in respect of  Director seeking re-appointment at this AGM is also annexed.
7.
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel  and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of the  Act, and the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which  the Directors are interested, maintained under Section 189  of the Act, will be available electronically for inspection to  the members during the AGM.
All documents referred to  in the Notice will also be available for electronic inspection  without payment of any fee by the members from the  date of circulation of this Notice up to the date of AGM i.e.
August 09, 2024.
Members seeking to inspect such  documents can send an email to ioclagm@indianoil.in.
8.
The Board of Directors of the Company has recommended  a final dividend of H 7/- per equity share for the year 2023- 24.
The Company has fixed Friday, July 12, 2024 as the  ‘Record Date’ for determining entitlement of members to  receive final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2024,  if approved, at the AGM.
The final dividend, once approved  by the members in the ensuing AGM, will be paid to the  eligible members within the stipulated period of thirty days  of declaration.
9.
The final dividend will be paid through electronic mode to  those members whose updated bank account details are  available.
SEBI has mandated that with effect from April  01, 2024, dividend to security holders (holding securities in  physical form), shall be paid only through electronic mode.
Such payment shall be made only after furnishing the PAN,  choice of nomination, contact details including mobile  number, bank account details and specimen signature.
10.
Members may note that the Income Tax Act, 1961, as  amended by the Finance Act, 2020, mandates that dividends  paid or distributed by a company is taxable in the hands of  members.
The Company shall therefore be required to deduct  tax at source (“TDS”) at the time of making the payment of  dividend.
In order to enable us to determine the applicable  TDS rate, members are requested to submit the relevant  documents on or before Wednesday, July 31, 2024.
The  detailed communication regarding TDS on dividend is provided  on the link: https://iocl.com/pages/notices-overview.
Kindly note that no documents in respect of TDS would be  accepted from members after July 31, 2024.
11.
Members may send their requests for change / updation  of address, bank account details, email address,  nominations, etc.
:  i) For shares held in dematerialised form - to their  respective Depository Participant;  ii) For shares held in physical form - to the Registrar  & Transfer Agents ("RTA ") i.e.
KFin Technologies  Ltd. (KFin), Unit: Indian Oil Corporation Limited,  Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District,  Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad - 500 032;  Toll Free No.
1800 309 4001; E-mail Address: einward.
ris@kfintech.com.
12.
As per Regulation 40 of Listing Regulations, as amended,  request for effecting transfer of securities shall not be  processed unless the securities are held in demat form  with a depository.
Further, transmission or transposition  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 436 437  Type of Members Login Methods  II.
E-Voting website of NSDL  i.
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL.
Open web browser by typing the following URL: https:// www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or mobile phone.
ii.
Once the homepage of e-Voting system is launched, click on the “Login” icon available  under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
iii.
A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User ID (i.e.
your sixteen-digit  demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as  shown on the screen.
iv.
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein  you can see e-Voting page.
Click on options available against Company name or e-Voting  service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for  casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting  during the meeting.
Individual Members  holding securities  in demat mode with  CDSL 1.
Existing users who have opted for Easi / Easiest, can login through their user id and password.
The option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication.
The  users to login Easi /Easiest are re-quested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click  on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then use existing Myeasi username & password.
2.
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible  companies where the e-Voting is in progress as per the infor-mation provided by Company.
On  clicking the e-Voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service  provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting  & voting during the meeting.
Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system  of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’  website directly.
3.
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number  and PAN No.
from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page.
The system  will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the  Demat Account.
After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option  where the e-Voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting  Service Providers.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use “Forgot User ID ” and “Forgot  Password” option available on the above-mentioned website.
Helpdesk for individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through depository  i.e.
NSDL and CDSL.
Login type Helpdesk details Individual Members  holding securities  in demat mode with  NSDL Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022-48867000.
Individual Members  holding securities  in demat mode with  CDSL Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at  helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 022- 23058738 or 022-23058542-43 otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to  vote through e-Voting system during the AGM.
v. The Company has appointed Shri Nrupang Bhumitra  Dholakia of Dholakia & Associates LLP , as Scrutinizer  and in his absence Ms Michelle Martin of Dholakia  & Associates LLP , a practicing Company Secretary,  to scrutinize the voting process in a fair and  transparent manner.
vi.
The members who cast their vote by remote e-Voting  prior to the AGM may also attend/participate in the  AGM through VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to  cast their vote again.
vii.
Any person, holding shares in physical form and non- individual members, who acquire the shares of the  Company after the dispatch of the notice and hold  shares as on the cut-off date, may obtain the login ID  and password by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.
com.
If a member is already registered with NSDL for  remote e-Voting, then such member can use existing  user ID and password for e-Voting.
If you forget the  password, the same can be reset by using “Forgot  User Details / Password” or “Physical User Reset  Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com   or by calling on no.
022-48867000.  viii.
An individual member holding shares in demat  mode, who acquires the shares of the Company after  dispatch of the notice and holding shares as on the  cut-off date may follow steps mentioned below.
ix.
Details of the process and manner for remote e-Voting  and voting during the AGM are explained below:  Step 1: Access to the e-Voting system  A)  Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting by  Individual Members holding securities in demat mode   In terms of the SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020  on e-Voting facility provided by listed companies  and as part of increasing the efficiency of the voting  process, e-Voting process has been enabled for all  individual Members holding securities in demat mode  to vote through their demat account maintained with  depositories / websites of depositories / depository  participants.
Members are advised to update their  mobile number and email ID in their demat accounts  in order to access e-Voting facility.
Type of Members Login Methods Individual Members  holding securities  in demat mode with  NSDL.
I. NSDL IDeAS facility  If the user is registered for the NSDL IDeAS facility:  a.
Please visit the e-Services website of NSDL.
Open web browser by typing the following  URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or mobile phone.
b.
Once the homepage of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under  “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
c. A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User ID and Password.
After successful  authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services.
d. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see  e-Voting page.
e. Click on options available against Company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and  you will be re-directed to NSDL e-Voting website for casting your vote during the remote  e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting and voting during the meeting.
If the user is not registered for IDeAS e-Services:  a.
The option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.
b.
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/ SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp   c. Upon successful registration, please follow steps given in points (a) to (e) above.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 438 439    Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting  system  1.
After successfully logging in following Step 1, you will  be able to see the EVEN of all companies in which you  hold shares and whose voting cycle is in active status.
2.
Select the EVEN of Indian Oil Corporation Limited.
3.
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the voting page opens.
4.
Cast your vote by selecting the appropriate options  i.e.
assent or dissent, verify or modify the number of  shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click  on the “Submit” and “Confirm” buttons when prompted.
5.
Upon confirmation, the message, “Vote cast  successfully”, will be displayed.
6.
You can also take a printout of the votes cast by you by  clicking on the “Print” option on the confirmation page.
7.
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will  not be allowed to modify your vote.
11.
Registration of Email ID:   a) In case, the member’s email ID is already  registered with the Company/its RTA/ Depositories, log in details for remote e-Voting  are being sent on the registered email address.
b) In case the members have not registered their  email address, they are requested to register their  email address as follows: Physical  holding Members, holding shares in  physical mode are requested to  get their email ids registered by  visiting following link- https:// kprism.kfintech.com/ Demat  holding Members, holding shares  in dematerialized mode  are requested to register/ update their email ids with  their respective Depository  Participant.
12.
Guidelines for e-Voting   1.
It is strongly recommended that you do not share  your password with any other person and take  utmost care to keep your password confidential.
Login to the e-Voting website will be disabled upon  five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct  password.
In such an event, you will need to go  through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or  “Physical User Reset Password?” option available  on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
2.
In case of any queries, you may refer to the  Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members  and e-Voting user manual for members available  in the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.
com or call on 022-48867000, or contact Mr  Amit Vishal, Deputy Vice President, or Ms Pallavi  Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL, at the designated  email IDs: evoting@nsdl.com to get your  grievances on e-Voting addressed.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH  VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER: 1.
Members will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM  through the NSDL e-Voting system.
Members may by  following the steps mentioned above for access to NSDL  e-Voting system.
After successful login, members can  click on “VC/OAVM link” placed under “Join Meeting” menu  against Company name.
The link for VC/OAVM will be  available in Shareholder/Member login where the EVEN of  Company will be displayed.
Please note that the members who do not have the User  ID and Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User  ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the  remote e-Voting instructions mentioned above to avoid  last minute rush.
2.
Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall open 30  minutes before the time scheduled for the AGM and will be  available for members on first come first serve basis.
3.
Members who need assistance before or during the AGM,  can call on 022-48867000 or contact Mr Amit Vishal, Deputy  Vice President, NSDL or Mr Abhijeet Gunjal, Assistant  Manager, NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com.
4.
Members who would like to express their views or ask  questions during the AGM may register themselves as a  speaker by sending their request from their registered email  address mentioning their name, DP ID and Client ID/folio  number, PAN, mobile number at ioclagm@indianoil.in from  August 4, 2024 to August 7, 2024 .
Those members who  have registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed  to express their views/ask questions during the AGM.
The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of  speakers depending on the availability of time for the AGM.
Other Instructions:  1.
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion  of voting at the AGM, first count the electronic votes cast  during the AGM and thereafter unblock and count the votes  cast through remote e-Voting and make a consolidated  Scrutinizer’s Report and submit the same to the Chairman  or any other person authorized by him.
The result will be  declared within the prescribed time limit.
2.
The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall  be placed on the Company’s website www.iocl.com and on  the website of NSDL www.evoting.nsdl.com  immediately.
The Company shall simultaneously forward the results to  National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited,  where the shares of the Company are listed.
B)  Login method for e-Voting and joining the virtual meeting for Members other than Individual Members holding securities  in demat mode and Members holding securities in physical mode.
1.
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL.
Open the web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/  either on a personal computer or on a mobile phone.
2.
Once the homepage of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login”, available under ‘Shareholder / Member’.
3.
A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
4.
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL e-services i.e.
IDeAS, you can log in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your  existing IDeAS login.
Once you log in to NSDL e-services using your login credentials, click on e-Voting and you can  proceed to Step 2 i.e.
Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system.
5.
Your User ID details are given below: Manner of holding shares i.e.
Demat (NSDL or  CDSL) or Physical Your User ID is: a)  For members who hold shares in demat  account with NSDL 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID (For example, if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12******  then your user ID is IN300***12******) b)  For members who hold shares in demat  account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID (For example, if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your  user ID is 12**************) c)  For members holding shares in Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the  Company  (For example, if EVEN is 123456 and folio number is IOCO*****  then user ID is 123456IOCO***)       6.
Password details for Members other than  individual Members are given below:    a) If you are already registered for e-Voting,  then you can use your existing password to  log in and cast your vote.
b) If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for  the first time, you will need to retrieve the  ‘initial password’ which was communicated  to you.
Once you retrieve your ‘initial  password’, you need to enter the ‘initial  password’ for the system to prompt you to  change your password.
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
If your email ID is registered in your demat  account or with the Company, your ‘initial  password’ is communicated to you on  your email ID.
Trace the email sent to you  from NSDL from your mailbox.
Open the  email and open the attachment i.e.
a .pdf  file.
Open the .pdf file.
The password to  open the .pdf file is your 8-digit Client ID  for your NSDL account, or the last 8 digits  of your Client ID for CDSL account, or Folio  Number for shares held in physical form.
The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your  ‘initial password’.
7.
If you are unable to retrieve or have not  received the “Initial password” or have  forgotten your password:    a) Click on “Forgot User Details / Password?”  (If you hold shares in your demat account  with NSDL or CDSL) option available on  www.evoting.nsdl.com.
b) Physical User Reset Password?
(If you hold  shares in physical mode) option available  on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
c) If you are still unable to get the password  by the above two options, you can send a  request to evoting@nsdl.com  mentioning  your demat account number / Folio  Number, your PAN, your name and your  registered address.
d) Members can also use the OTP (One Time  Password)-based login for casting their  vote on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
8.
After entering your password, tick on “Agree with  Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
9.
Now, you will have to click on the “Login” button.
10.
After you click on the “Login” button, the  homepage of e-Voting will open.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 440 441  green hydrogen initiatives besides making critical contributions in  carbon capture and ethanol technologies.
Shri Sharma represents the Oil & Gas sector on various  committees of NITI Aayog, MNRE, DST and Bureau of Energy  Efficiency.
He is also a member of International Association  of Hydrogen Energy (IAHE) and founder member of Hydrogen  Association of India (HAI).
Number of Board Meetings attended during 2023-2024 03 Details of Directorships in other companies including  listed companies and excluding foreign companies Nil Membership / Chairmanship in the Committees of  other companies Nil No.
of Shares held in the Company Nil Listed Entities from which Shri Sharma has resigned  since last 3 years Nil Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors  and key managerial personnel Nil The Company has received requisite consent from Shri Alok  Sharma.
He is neither disqualified from being appointed as  Director in terms of provisions of the Act nor debarred from being  appointed to the office of Director by virtue of any order of SEBI  or any other authority.
In terms of Section 160 of the Act, the Company has received a notice  in writing from a member signifying his intention to propose the  name of Shri Alok Sharma as a candidate for the office of Director.
None of the Directors/Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company except Shri Alok Sharma is interested or concerned in  the resolution.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as  set out in the Notice for approval by the Members.
Item No.
6 Appointment of Ms Rashmi Govil (DIN - 10531397) as  Director (Human Resources) of the Company Ms Rashmi Govil (DIN-10531397), aged 54 years is a Science  Graduate and an MBA in Personnel Management from  Bundelkhand University.
She has three decades of rich and  comprehensive experience in Human Resource Management viz.
industrial relations, compensation management, performance  management, staffing, recruitment, policy formulation,  succession planning, systems management, audit etc.
gained  while working at IndianOil’s Refinery Units, Refinery Headquarters  and Corporate Office which has helped her in developing a deep  understanding of employee relations.
She has also led various  strategic HR initiatives like revisiting HR policies and practices  to keep them progressive and relevant, with special focus on  diversity, inclusion and well-being.
Number of Board Meetings attended during 2023-2024 01 Details of Directorships in other companies including  listed companies and excluding foreign companies Nil Membership / Chairmanship in the Committees of  other companies Nil No.
of Shares held in the Company 4633 Listed Entities from which Ms Govil has resigned  since last 3 years Nil Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors  and key managerial personnel Nil The Company has received requisite consent from Ms Rashmi  Govil.
She is neither disqualified from being appointed as Director  in terms of provisions of the Act nor debarred from being  appointed to the office of Director by virtue of any order of SEBI  or any other authority.
In terms of Section 160 of the Act, the Company has received  a notice in writing from a member signifying his intention to  propose the name of Ms Rashmi Govil as a candidate for the  office of Director.
None of the Directors/Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company except Ms Rashmi Govil is interested or concerned in  the resolution.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as  set out in the Notice for approval by the Members.
Item No.
7 Appointment of Shri Arvind Kumar (DIN - 09224177)  as Director (Refineries) of the Company Shri Arvind Kumar (DIN - 09224177), aged 57 years, is a  Mechanical Engineer from KNIT, Sultanpur and holds a Master’s  Degree in Business Administration with specialization in  Operations Management from IGNOU.
Shri Arvind Kumar had joined IndianOil in 1990 and has more  than three decades of rich experience in the field of Engineering,  Project Management, Materials & Contract Management, and  Plant Operations & Maintenance including head of Mathura  Refinery and Executive Director (Projects).
During his tenure as  Executive Director (Projects) in Refineries Division, Shri Kumar  played an instrumental role in handling mega Refineries and  Petrochemicals projects.
Prior to joining as Director (Refineries) of IndianOil, he was the  Managing Director of Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited  (CPCL), a listed Subsidiary of IndianOil.
He was also the Non- Executive Chairman of Indian Additives Limited (a Joint Venture  Company of CPCL), a Non-Executive Director in Cauvery Basin  Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (a Joint Venture of IndianOil  & CPCL), and a Non-Executive Director on the Board of National  Aromatics and Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd. (a Joint  Venture of CPCL).
As President of Manali Industries Association, Chennai  comprising of Petroleum, Chemical, Petrochemical and  Engineering Industries, he made significant contribution for the  growth of industrialization in Tamil Nadu.
Number of Board Meetings attended during 2023-2024 NA Details of Directorships in other companies  including listed companies and excluding foreign  companies Nil Membership / Chairmanship in the Committees of  other companies Nil No.
of Shares held in the Company 2400 Listed Entities from which Shri Kumar has resigned  since last 3 years 1 (CPCL) Disclosure of inter-se relationships between  directors and key managerial personnel Nil The Company has received requisite consent from Shri Arvind  Kumar.
He is neither disqualified from being appointed as  A BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTOR PROPOSED TO BE  REAPPOINTED IS GIVEN BELOW: Item No.
3 To appoint a Director in place of Shri Sujoy  Choudhury (DIN – 09503285) who retires by rotation  and is eligible for reappointment Shri Sujoy Choudhury (DIN - 09503285), aged 59 years was  inducted on the Board of the Company on 23.02.2022.
He is a  Mechanical Engineer and an MBA (Finance) from Jadavpur  University, Kolkata.
He possesses more than three decades  of rich experience across various functions of Oil Industry like  Engineering, Retail Sales and Petrochemicals (Marketing).
Before his elevation as Director (Planning & Business  Development), Shri Sujoy Choudhury was heading IndianOil’s  Punjab State Office wherein he was in-charge of all petroleum  activities in the States of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, and in the  Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Chandigarh.
He has been instrumental in strengthening the Oil infrastructure  of the State/UT’s, introduction of Winter Grade Diesel for high  altitude areas, development of specialised lubricants for FMCG  industry, introduction of geotextiles and steel concrete composite  structures for construction in hilly terrains, etc.
He is also a Non-Executive Chairman on the Board of Lanka IOC  PLC (subsidiary of IndianOil in Sri Lanka), IndianOil Total Pvt.
Ltd., and CII Northern Regional Committee on Energy.
He is also  a Non-Executive Director on the Board of IndOil Montney Ltd. (a  Wholly Owned Subsidiary of IndianOil’s Wholly Owned Subsidiary,  IndOil Global BV, Netherlands.).
Number of Board Meetings attended during 2023-2024 14 Details of Directorships in other companies including  listed companies and excluding foreign companies-  IndianOil Total Pvt.
Ltd. 1 Membership / Chairmanship in the Committees of  other companies Nil No.
of Shares held in the Company 19,800 Listed Entities from which Shri Choudhury has  resigned since last 3 years Nil Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors  and key managerial personnel Nil STATEMENT SETTING OUT THE MATERIAL FACTS  RELATING TO THE SPECIAL BUSINESS IN PURSUANCE  OF SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT , 2013 Item No.
4 Appointment of Shri Anuj Jain (DIN - 10310088) as  Director (Finance) of the Company Shri Anuj Jain (DIN-10310088), aged 53 years, is a Commerce  Graduate and a Chartered Accountant from the Institute of  Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
He has also completed a  Master’s in Business Finance from the ICAI.
Shri Anuj Jain had joined IndianOil in 1996 and has over 27 years  of rich and varied experience in the field of Finance, Taxation and  Commercial aspects of the Oil & Gas industry.
He has handled  various assignments like Corporate Finance, Treasury & Fund  Management, Supply Chain Optimisation, Pricing, Shipping,  Direct and Indirect Taxation, SAP and ERP system etc.
Prior to  his elevation as Director (Finance), Shri Anuj Jain was the Chief  General Manager (Finance) at Refineries Headquarters.
He was also posted as Senior Vice President (Finance) in Lanka  IOC PLC., a listed Subsidiary of IndianOil in Sri Lanka where he  headed the Finance function.
He was also a Board member and  Audit Committee member of Ceylon Petroleum Storage Terminals  Limited (CPSTL), a strategic petroleum Company in Sri Lanka.
Shri Anuj Jain is actively involved in identification and formulation  of various business strategies for energy transition of the  Company in the changing landscape of India’s energy sector.
Number of Board Meetings attended during 2023-2024 7 Details of Directorships in other companies including  listed companies and excluding foreign companies Nil Membership / Chairmanship in the Committees of  other companies Nil No.
of Shares held in the Company 450 Listed Entities from which Shri Jain has resigned  since last 3 years Nil Disclosure of inter-se relationships between directors  and key managerial Personnel  Nil The Company has received requisite consent from Shri Anuj Jain.
He is neither disqualified from being appointed as Director in  terms of provisions of the Act nor debarred from being appointed  to the office of Director by virtue of any order of SEBI or any  other authority.
In terms of Section 160 of the Act, the Company has received  a notice in writing from a member signifying his intention to  propose the name of Shri Anuj Jain as a candidate for the  office of Director.
None of the Directors/Key Managerial Personnel of the Company  except Shri Anuj Jain is interested or concerned in the resolution.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as  set out in the Notice for approval by the Members.
Item No.
5 Appointment of Shri Alok Sharma (DIN - 10453982) as  Director (Research & Development) of the Company Shri Alok Sharma (DIN-10453982), aged 58 years, is a post  graduate engineer in Chemical Engineering from IIT Delhi and  graduate from Gujarat University.
Mr. Sharma has more than 3  decades of rich experience in the downstream energy sector and  has made significant contributions to the Indian refining sector  in Process, Projects, and Production.
Prior to his elevation as  Director (Research & Development), Shri Sharma was Executive  Director at Centre for High Technology under the MoP&NG, where  he played a pivotal role in coordinating refining, petrochemical,  and alternative energy activities for pan Indian Oil & Gas industry.
During his career in IndianOil, his various achievements inter alia  include pivotal role in establishing India’s First Hydrocracker Unit  in Gujarat Refinery as well as Hydroprocessing lab and Resid  Block at R&D Centre.
With a visionary approach to catalyze  IndianOil’s ambitions in Alternative Energy, he spearheaded the  Research and Development endeavors in hydrogen, gasification,  solar, CO2 capture, and energy storage technologies.
His  noteworthy achievements include successful development of  compact reforming HCNG solutions, co-processing of non-edible  oils in refinery, nation’s first HCNG trials in Delhi, fuel cell and  Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 442 443  b) Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited i.
Name of the RP Cauvery Basin Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (CBRPL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Setting up of 9 MMTPA Refinery at Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu iv.
Type of RPT’s Equity Investment v. Material terms and conditions In line with terms and conditions mentioned in JVC agreement vi.
Details of source of funds for  equity investment Internal accruals vii.
Expected value of RPT for 2025-26 H 3600 crore  viii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 ix Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company x.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s  consolidated turnover of  H 8,81,235 crore for the year 2023- 24 0.41 % xi.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for  any nature of RPT.
c) Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited i.
Name of the RP Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Setting up and operating fertilizer plants at Sindri, Gorakhpur and Barauni iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale and Purchase of goods and services - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation  v. Material terms and conditions - The sale of LNG on spot basis at prevailing market prices on the date of supply.
- Sale of petroleum products is done based on prevailing market price on the date of supply.
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to RP is on cost-to-cost basis vi.
Expected value of RPT for  2025-26 H 2400 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company ix Value of RPT as % of  IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 8,81,235 crore for  the year 2023-24 0.27% x.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for any  nature of RPT.
d) IHB Limited i.
Name of the RP IHB Limited ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Laying, building, operating or expanding LPG Pipeline from Kandla (Gujarat) to  Gorakhpur (UP) iv.
Type of RPT’s - Transportation of LPG - Equity Investment - Sales of Goods and services i.e., EPMC services - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to RP - Sales of Goods and services i.e., ROU sharing -  Rendering of Services & Others (payment towards AMC support service, SAP user  license etc.)
v. Material terms and conditions -  Transportation of LPG shall be based on the Transportation Tariff bid by IHB Ltd. in  the PNGRB bid - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation to RP is on cost-to-cost basis.
- Equity Investment is based on the same price as offered to other promoters.
-  The ROU sharing invoicing will be done as per the approved policy which is applicable  to other OMCs also.
vi.
Details of source of funds for  equity investment Internal accruals vii.
Expected value of RPT for  2025-26 H 2100 crore  viii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 Director in terms of provisions of the Act nor debarred from being  appointed to the office of Director by virtue of any order of SEBI  or any other authority.
In terms of Section 160 of the Act, the Company has received  a notice in writing from a member signifying intention to  propose the name of Shri Arvind Kumar as a candidate for the  office of Director.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company except Shri Arvind Kumar is interested or concerned  in the resolution.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as  set out in the Notice for approval by the Members.
Item Nos.
8, 9, 10, 11,  12, 13, 14,  15, & 16  Approval for Material Related Party Transactions with  Related Parties for the year 2025-26 As per Section 188 of the Act, Related Party Transactions (RPT)  such as sale / purchase of goods or services, disposal or lease of  property of any kind, appointment of any agent for purchase or  sale of any goods, materials, services or property, appointment to  an office of profit and underwriting the subscription of securities/ derivatives of the Company, shall require prior approval of  members, if transactions exceed such sums, as prescribed.
Further, such transactions are exempt from the requirement of  obtaining prior approval of members, if they are in ordinary course  of business and at arms’ length.
Further, Reg.
23 of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations) contains  provision relating to prior approval of members for material related  party transactions even if such transaction is in ordinary course of  business and at arms’ length.
As per Listing Regulations, an RPT  shall be considered material, if the transaction(s) to be entered  into individually or taken together with previous transactions  during a financial year, exceeds H 1000 crore or 10% of the annual  consolidated turnover of the Company as per the last audited  financial statements, whichever is lower.
IndianOil undertakes transactions with its Related Parties  (RPs) i.e.
Subsidiary, Associate, Joint Venture Companies in the  course of its business for which approval of Audit Committee  is obtained in compliance with extant provisions of the Act &  Listing Regulations.
In view of the provisions of Reg.23 of Listing Regulations and  further clarification provided by SEBI from time to time, prior  approval of members for material RPT’s is required to be taken on  annual basis, if the transaction(s) to be entered into individually or  taken together with previous transactions during the next financial  year, exceeds H 1000 crore or 10% of the annual consolidated  turnover of IndianOil as per the last audited financial statements,  whichever is lower.
Material RPT’s with RP’s during 2025-26 As the expected value of the transactions with the RP’s as mentioned at item nos.
8, 9, 10, 11,12,13,14,15 & 16 is likely to exceed H 1000  crore during the year 2025-26, members approval for the material RPT’s is being sought.
The Audit Committee and the Board of the  Company have reviewed the material RPT’s and recommended seeking members approval for the same The information required under the Listing Regulations w.r.t RPT’s which are likely to exceed H 1000 crore during 2025-26 and require  approval of members is provided as under: a) Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka i.
Name of the RP Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka (LIOC) ii.
Nature of Relationship Subsidiary Company of IndianOil  iii.
Nature of business Retailing, Terminalling & Bunkering iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale and Purchase of goods and services - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation  v. Material terms and conditions -  The sale of petroleum product like Gasoil, Gasoline, Base Oil, Marine Gasoil etc.
is as per the terms and conditions of the tender floated by LIOC.
- Purchase of products would be at prevailing market rates - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on cost-to-cost basis vi.
Expected value of RPT for 2025-26 H 1400 crore vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e., for 2025-26 viii.
Justification for RPT with the RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company ix.
Value of RPT as % of IndianOil’s  consolidated turnover of H 8,81,235  crore for the year 2023-24 0.16% x.
Value of RPT as % of LIOC’s  turnover of H 6887.44 crore for the  year 2023-24 20.33% xi.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for  any nature of RPT.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 444 445  g) IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd. i.
Name of the RP IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd. (IPPL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Terminalling services and parallel marketing of LPG iv.
Type of RPT’s - Sale of LPG / Butane / Propane on high sea sale basis - Payment of service charge to RP towards bottling assistance and job work - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation  - Others (payment towards rent, safety surveillance charges etc.)
v. Material terms and conditions -  Material terms and conditions are based on the agreement which inter-alia includes  the commercial terms which are market linked or derived through tender or mutual  negotiation.
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on cost-to-cost basis vi.
Expected value of RPT for  2025-26 H 3500 crore vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 viii.
Justification for RPT with the  RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company.
ix.
Value of RPT as % of  IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 8,81,235 crore for  the year 2023-24 0.40% x.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for any  nature of RPT.
h) Petronet LNG Ltd. i.
Name of the RP Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business LNG imports / distribution and regasification iv.
Type of RPT’s - Purchase of Regasified Liquefied Natural Gas (RLNG) - Regasification Services - Rental income - Sale of petroleum products  - Reimbursement of expenditure v. Material terms and conditions -  Long term agreement is entered with the RP which inter-alia includes the  commercial terms which are market linked and similar to the contract executed by  PLL with other off- takers.
Spot contracts are executed through tenders.
- Rental income is similar to rental recovered from other unrelated parties.
-  Sale of petroleum products is done based on prevailing market prices on the date of  supply.
vi.
Expected value of RPT for  2025-26 H 19600 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 viii.
Justification for RPT with the  RP Purchase of Natural Gas for processing in the refineries of the Company as well as sale  to other customers for furtherance of business interest of the Company.
ix.
Value of RPT as % of  IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 8,81,235 crore for  the year 2023-24 2.22% x.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for any  nature of RPT.
i) Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. i.
Name of the RP Falcon Oil & Gas B.V. (FOGBV), Netherland ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndOil Global B.V. Netherlands (a Wholly Owned  Subsidiary of IndianOil).
iii.
Nature of business Exploration and development of unconventional Oil & Gas assets.
iv.
Type of RPT’s Purchase of Crude Oil v. Material terms and conditions The selling price of Das blend crude offered by FOGBV is derived from the results of  Transfer pricing study carried out by KPMG in 2019 for arriving at a pricing on an arms- length basis.
The same discount was being offered uniformly to all other shareholders of  FOGBV and their affiliates.
ix.
Justification for RPT with the  RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company x.
Value of RPT as % of  IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 8,81,235 crore for  the year 2023-24 0.24 % xi.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for any  nature of RPT.
e) IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. i.
Name of the RP IndianOil Adani Gas Pvt.
Ltd. (IOAGPL) ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business City Gas Distribution iv.
Type of RPT’s - Equity Investment - Purchase / sale / Swapping of natural gas -  Receipt of fees for providing financial and other guarantees to enable IOAGPL to  meet its financial as well operational commitments made to PNGRB.
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation  - Others (reimbursement of expenses, etc.)
v. Material terms and conditions -  Sale of RLNG is based on Short Term/ Spot Basis.
Sale Agreement of RLNG is  entered with IOAGPL which inter-alia includes the commercial terms and similar to  the contract executed by the Company with other unrelated parties.
-  Purchase of RLNG on Spot Basis through IGX Portal.
On IGX, Buyers and Sellers are  anonymous to each other and details of counterparty are not known at the time of  trade and trade matching is carried out by IGX on the basis of price.
- Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation is on cost-to-cost basis vi.
Details of source of funds for  equity investment Internal accruals vii.
Expected value of RPT for  2025-26 H 4300 crore  viii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 ix.
Justification for RPT with the  RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company.
x.
Value of RPT as % of  IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 8,81,235 crore for  the year 2023-24 0.49% xi.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for any  nature of RPT.
f) IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited i.
Name of the RP IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Private Limited ii.
Nature of Relationship Joint Venture Company (JVC) of IndianOil iii.
Nature of business Developing Renewable Energy based power projects iv.
Type of RPT’s - Equity Investment - Reimbursement of salary of employees on deputation  v. Material terms and conditions In line with terms and conditions mentioned in JVC agreement vi.
Details of source of funds for  equity investment Internal accruals vii.
Expected value of RPT for  2025-26 H 1100 crore  viii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 ix.
Justification for RPT with the  RP For furtherance of business interest of the Company and to increase usage of  Renewable Energy to achieve Net Zero Goals of IndianOil x.
Value of RPT as % of  IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 8,81,235 crore for  the year 2023-24 0.12 % xi.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for any  nature of RPT.
Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 AGM NOTICE 446 447  vi.
Expected value of RPT for  2025-26 H 4000 crore  vii.
Tenure of the RPT One year i.e.
for 2025-26 viii.
Justification for RPT with the  RP Purchase of Crude Oil for further processing in the refineries of the Company to meet  the demand of petroleum products as well as to diversify the basket of crudes available  to the Company.
ix.
Value of RPT as % of  IndianOil’s consolidated  turnover of H 8,81,235 crore for  the year 2023-24 0.45% x.
Maximum value of RPT during  2025-26 10% of the consolidated turnover of the Company in the preceding financial year for any  nature of RPT.
None of the Directors/Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company/their relative is in any way interested or concerned in  the resolutions mentioned at item nos.
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15  & 16 except as given below: 	 Shri S. M. Vaidya, Chairman of IndianOil, who is a Non- Executive Director on the Board of Petronet LNG Ltd.;  	 Shri Satish Kumar Vaduguri, Director (Marketing) of  IndianOil, who is Non-Executive Chairman on the Board of  IndianOil Petronas Pvt.
Ltd.;  	 Shri Sujoy Choudhury, Director(P&BD), who is Non-Executive  Chairman on the Board of Lanka IOC PLC, Sri Lanka; 	 Shri N. Senthil Kumar, Director (Pipelines), who is Non- Executive Chairman on the Board of IHB Ltd.; The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolutions as set out  in the notice for approval by the Members.
Item No.
17 To ratify the remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the  financial year ending March 31, 2025.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee,  has approved the appointment of following Cost Auditors at an  aggregate remuneration of H 24.50 lakh plus applicable taxes and  out of pocket expenses to conduct the audit of the cost records  of the various units of the Company for the financial year ending  March 31, 2025: Sl.
No.
Name of the Cost Auditor Audit Fees (J) 1.
Chandra Wadhwa & Co., New Delhi 5,20,000/- 2.
Balwinder & Associates, New Delhi 3,40,000/- 3.
ABK & Associates, Mumbai 4,20,000/- 4.
Bandyopadhyaya Bhaumik & Co., Kolkata.
3,50,000/- 5.
R. J. Goel & Co., New Delhi 3,10,000/- 6.
Mani & Co., Kolkata 2,70,000/- 7.
Vivekanandan Unni & Associates,  Chennai 2,40,000/- TOTAL 24,50,000/- In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act  read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the  remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors has to be ratified by  the members of the Company.
Accordingly, consent of the members is sought by passing an  Ordinary Resolution for ratification of the remuneration payable  to the Cost Auditors for the financial year ending March 31, 2025,  as approved by the Board.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the  Company/their relatives are, in any way, interested or concerned  financially or otherwise in the resolution.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as set out in  the Notice for approval by the Members.
Registered Office:  By Order of the Board of Directors IndianOil Bhavan,    G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051   Sd/- (Kamal Kumar Gwalani) Company Secretary Date: July 17, 2024 (ACS: 13737) Positive Energy, Business and Beyond IndianOil Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 448   Indian Oil Corporation Limited Registered Office: IndianOil Bhavan, G-9, Ali Yavar Jung Marg, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400051, Maharashtra  /IndianOilCorpLimited /indianoilcorporationlimited /indianoilcorp/IndianOilcl